       lightbulbs
    C. collecting glass and plastic bottles in the neighborhood to recycle
    D. trading in an E85 flex-fuel car for one that uses biodiesel




       THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 4: GEOGRAPHY AND THE
                                                WORLD.
                 ANSWERS AND
                 EXPLANATIONS
Chapter 1: Civics and Government
1. A Locke says that men are naturally free, so this is the philosophy of
   natural rights.

2. C Natural rights are the same as “unalienable rights.”

3. Checks by president on other branches include veto power (over the
   legislative branch) and appointment power (over the judicial branch).
   Checks on presidential power include the legislature’s power of
   impeachment and the judiciary’s power to declare presidential acts as
   unconstitutional.

4. B The delegates were very concerned about limiting the power of the
   federal government since they had just fought a war to gain
   independence.

5. A The United States has a representative democracy in which the
   people elect representatives to govern.

6. D Direct democracy is when the people rule directly. New England
   town meetings are an example of this because the whole town may
   speak and vote on issues.

7. B Both federal and state governments must have money to operate, and
   they have different tasks to accomplish.

8. D Canada is a foreign country, so only the federal government may
   make trade agreements with Canada.

9. A Federalism is the system of dividing, or sharing, power.
10. B The only duty the Constitution specifies for the vice president is to
    act as presiding officer of the Senate.

11. A The biggest difference is that the British prime minister can disband
    Parliament. The U.S. president cannot disband Congress.

12. Two-year term: member of the U.S. House; four-year term: president,
    vice president; six-year term: U.S. senator

13. The president is elected by a majority of electoral votes.

14. C Supreme Court justices serve for life.

15. C The current debate on gun control is based on the Second
    Amendment.

16. B The Second Amendment specifies that it applies to a “well regulated
    Militia” and many people today argue that militias are no longer
    necessary because the United States has armed services and that
    regular citizens have no need of guns to defend the security of the
    state.

17. D Separation of church and state would prohibit state-run schools from
    requiring prayer.

18. A The court most likely thought that a law prohibiting free expression
    (in this case cross-burning) is contrary to the First Amendment right to
    free speech.

19. C A researcher who thinks pornography is linked to violence against
    children might support limiting that type of free speech. The other
    choices describe people who are actively using their right to free
    speech.

20. C Between 1929 and 1949, there were 885 vetoes, which is by far the
    most.
21. A The number of vetoes jumped dramatically in 1869–1889, and the
    veto continued to be used at a much higher rate than previously.

22. C Considering the number of vetoes and the number overridden by
    Congress, one can conclude that most vetoes are not overridden. After
    1869, the rate is lower than 10% for every period except 1969–1989,
    when it was 14%.

23. B After 1869, the data becomes widely separated and would be
    difficult to show on one graph with a single scale.

24. Basic rights: First, Second, Ninth; rights of the accused: Fourth, Fifth,
    Sixth, Eighth

25. A The Fourth Amendment bans unwarranted search and seizure.

26. D The Sixth Amendment guarantees the right to legal counsel.

27. B The Fourth Amendment bans unwarranted search and seizure.

28. C The Fourteenth Amendment granted citizenship to African
    American males, and the Fifteenth gave them the right to vote.

29. D The Twenty-Sixth Amendment gave people ages 18–21 the right to
    vote.

30. B States set their own election rules, but the federal government can
    set the rules on federal elections.

31. B The Nineteenth Amendment, allowing women to vote, impacted
    roughly 50% of the population.

32. Speaker of the House

33. D The rule of law states that no one is exempt from the law, so even
    the president must obey the law.
34. C To override a veto, Congress needs a two-thirds majority in both
    houses.

35. executive

36. C Land management, national parks, fish, and wildlife all fall under
    the Department of the Interior.

37. C This is the principle of popular sovereignty because the people rule.

38. B The Preamble states the reasons for the Constitution.

39. B Any bill must have approval by both the House and Senate. In
    addition, a bill cannot become law without either the president’s
    signature or a Congressional override of a presidential veto.

40. A If two versions of a bill are approved, it must go to committee for
    revision to a single version.

41. B The number of electoral votes is determined by the number of
    congressional representatives for each state.

42. C Candidates are chosen in primary elections.

43. B Article III establishes the judicial branch.

44. C The assertion that the Constitution is the “supreme law of the land”
    is found in Article VI, which lists “supremacy of Constitution and
    federal laws.”

45. A Interest groups do not have candidates that run for office (as
    representatives of their interest groups).

46. governor

47. B The Sierra Club is well known for its efforts to protect the
    environment and promote conservation.
48. B The passage says, “a government in which the scheme of
    representation takes place.”

49. B The first paragraph describes pure democracy as being for a small
    number of citizens.

50. C The first paragraph says, “There is nothing to check the inducements
    to sacrifice the weaker party.”

51. D Congress can stretch its power to “make all Laws which shall be
    necessary.”

52. B Preventing discrimination is protecting minority rights.

53. nine

54. vice president; Speaker of the House

55. A Conventions are held to determine which candidates will run for
    president and vice president.

56. B Because senators have a six-year term, one-third of the Senate seats
    are up for election every two years.

57. B In 1992, the Reform Party got a significant share of the votes.

58. D In 2000, Bush won the electoral vote, but Gore won the popular vote.

59. D Oregon, Washington, and Wisconsin were majority Democratic
    states in all four elections.

60. D Texas, North Dakota, and South Dakota were majority Republican
    states in all four elections.

61. C The asterisk says that the other method for proposal has never been
    used, so every amendment proposed so far has been with approval
    from two-thirds majorities in the House and Senate.
62. A The founding fathers wanted the Constitution to be enduring and
    strong, but not impossible to change if necessary.

63. C Like the United States, Mexico is a republic, with the president as
    head of the government and chief of state.

64. D Saudi Arabia is a monarchy in which the king holds the most power.

65. B A theocratic state has a religious leader as its head. Iran has such a
    leader as chief of state.

66. C Article I, Section II, of the Constitution requires that every 10 years
    a census be taken to determine the number of representatives each
    state will have in the House of Representatives.

67. A The last line of the passage says that larger populations make it less
    likely that a majority will impose upon the rights of a minority.

68. C In the line following the phrase “factious combinations,” Madison
    refers to them as “distinct parties and interests.”

69. 435; 100

70. C In the first line, the court acknowledges “the importance of the
    general privilege of confidentiality.”

71. B The first line of the second paragraph says that withholding this
    evidence “would cut deeply into the guarantee of due process.”

72. A The court asserted that the general idea of privilege does not
    outweigh the guarantee of due process, so the president would have to
    turn over the subpoenaed documents.

73. D The first three items begin with the phrase “Protect the United
    States.”

74. C Discrimination is a matter of civil rights.
75. B Hackers are committing cyberbased attacks.

76. sovereignty Individual states within the United States do not have
    sovereignty.

77. territory A common locality would be a territory.

78 register

79. B Repugnant means in conflict with, and void means not valid.

80. D Judicial review is the power to decide whether a law is
    constitutional.

81. C Because the Constitution can be amended, it can change with the
    needs of the society.

82. B Retirement benefits are dependent on age eligibility.

83. D Survivors benefits are for minor children whose deceased parent had
    been receiving retirement benefits.

84. D The chart says that the English test is not necessary for some older
    immigrants.

85. B Naturalization is for eligible immigrants who want to become
    citizens.

86. D These are members of the president’s staff, so would be under White
    House Staff.

87. C Independent agencies and government corporations would be the
    most independent.

88. A This is the only period shown in which federal employment went
    down.
89. C For most of the period covered, federal employment rose. This
    likely means that more services were being provided by the federal
    government.

90. D “All men are created equal . . .” comes from the Magna Carta’s
    assertion that no one, including the king, is exempt from the laws.

91. A Freedom of religion is protected by the First Amendment.

92. B The U.S. Department of Energy, and all other cabinet departments,
    are a part of the Executive Branch.

93. B The decisions differ on what it means to be “equal.”

94. New citizens promise to support the laws of the United States, serve in
    the armed forces if called upon, and renounce allegiance to any foreign
    country.

95. A Researching “biological effects” falls within the mission of the NIH
    to enhance health and reduce illness.

96. First, someone has an idea for a bill; second, the type of bill is
    determined; third, the text of the bill is written; fourth, a member of
    Congress sponsors the bill; fifth, support for the bill is gathered.

97. A The Office of Partner Engagement reports to the deputy director.

98. C A person must be a resident of New York to vote in New York.

99. D Full-time members of police departments are prohibited from
    serving, even if they wish to serve.

100. B A democracy would be most likely to choose a leader through a fair
   and free election.

Chapter 2: U.S. History
1. B The Mayflower Compact was written by the settlers of Plymouth,
    Massachusetts. It is the first governing document written by colonists
    in the New World.

2. A The colonists pledge to form a “civil body politic” and obey the laws
    they make together.

3. Choosing the president: electoral college; representation in Congress:
    Great Compromise; counting enslaved people in population: Three-
    Fifths Compromise

4. Strengths included the power of Congress to make treaties, to declare
    war, and to form new states (with populations over 60,000).
    Weaknesses included the taxation power of Congress, which could not
    be enforced; the amendment process, which made changing the
    document very difficult; and the lack of a federal court system.

5. C The gray area on the map shows that people were removed from the
    West Coast. Most of them were interred further toward the interior of
    the country.

6. B President Roosevelt issued the executive order in 1942. Wilson was
    president during WWI; Truman became president just before the end
    of WWII; and Eisenhower served after the end of WWII.

7. B The removal of Japanese Americans from their homes and relocation
    to internment camps was similar to the removal of Native Americans
    from their homes and relocation to reservations.

8. D This took place during the War of 1812. It is the only conflict listed
    that took place between the British and Americans when Washington
    was the nation’s capital.

9. 2007 The only year that the number of employees decreased was 2007,
    so that is most likely the year it had funding cuts.

10. C After September 11, 2001, American increased its efforts to fight
    terrorism.
11. taxation; crime and punishment

12. D The passages are concerned with the rule of law. The final paragraph
    states this most directly.

13. C Clause 20 says that freeman should be punished “according to the
    degree of the offense.”

14. First, Magna Carta; second, the Mayflower Compact; third, the English
    Bill of Rights; fourth, the Declaration of Independence; fifth, the U.S.
    Constitution

15. D The largest number of immigrants in every single period came from
    Europe.

16. C You can use your calculator to find the exact number (20,773,075) or
    you can round the numbers: 4.5 million + 3.5 million + 7.5 million + 5
    million = 19.5 million. Choice C is closest to that estimate.

17. C There was a big drop in immigration from Asia in the period 1880–
    1889, so that is likely to be when the act was passed.

18. D Immigration from Europe grew between 1860 and 1869 and through
    1900–1909. After that it dropped significantly. Choice D is the only
    answer choice after that drop.

19. War of 1812: Britain and United States, 1812–1815; Civil War: North
    and South, 1861–1865; World War I: Allied and Central Powers, 1914–
    1918; World War II: United Nations and Axis, 1939–1945.

20. A The Great Compromise was between large and small states. It
    helped establish the system of representation structured in the
    Constitution.

21. D Yugoslavia was a communist country.

22. D The United States was a member of NATO; the other countries were
    not.
23. B You can infer that they were not communist countries because there
    is a different color for those on the map.

24. A The first paragraph cites the “laws of nature,” and the second
    paragraph says power is derived from “the consent of the governed.”

25. C The first paragraph says it has become “necessary for one people to
    dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another.”

26. C Italy could not be counted on because it had a secret treaty with
    France.

27. A Austria-Hungary feared the growth of Serbia and Russia was aligned
    with Serbia.

28. C The alliances were so entangled that a local problem spread out to
    involve many nations.

29. D France’s assistance was vital to the success of the American
    Revolution.

30. Thirteenth Amendment: abolition of slavery; Fourteenth Amendment:
    citizenship for African Americans; Fifteenth Amendment: suffrage for
    African American males.

31. A The first paragraph says, “enough has now been given to party,” and
    the second paragraph mentions “past party dissensions.”

32. D The last line of the passage says it is America’s “manifest destiny to
    overspread the continent.”

33. D Nixon is the only president to have resigned.

34. Washington: served as first president, commander of Continental
    Army, president of Constitutional Convention; Jefferson: wrote
    Declaration of Independence, made Louisiana Purchase.
35. C The last paragraph says the people have warned the British,
    reminded them, appealed to their sense of justice, and evoked their
    common ties, and yet the British “have remained deaf to the voice of
    justice.”

36. D An usurpation is a wrongful exercise of authority.

37. A Nixon lost political support after attempting to cover up his
    administration’s involvement in the burglary at the Democratic
    National Committee headquarters in the Watergate office complex.

38. C After the Civil War, Southern states passed “Black Codes” to restrict
    the freedom of African Americans. Congress passed the Military
    Reconstruction Acts of 1867 to divide the South into five military
    districts.

39. North: growing industry, immigration, high tariffs, free labor, growth
    of Republican Party, permanency of the Union; South: slave labor,
    plantation economy, low tariffs, opposition to abolition, states’ rights.

40. B The country President Truman describes in the third paragraph is
    communist Russia, and he contrasts it with the United States.

41. A The United States followed a policy of containment by helping stop
    the spread of communism. This is mentioned in the fourth paragraph.

42. C This speech was made in 1947, after the end of WWII. The Marshall
    Plan was enacted in 1948 to rebuild war-torn countries, improve their
    economies, and prevent the spread of Communism.

43. D Harding is establishing “a policy of noninvolvement” known as
    isolationism.

44. B This address was made in 1921, so he must be referring to World
    War I.

45. C The influence of the United Nations is debated because many
    believe the United States pays too much of the UN’s budget and that
   the UN should not dictate American foreign policy.

46. B All of the events listed deal with civil rights.

47. C According to the timeline, Letter from a Birmingham Jail was
    written to argue that “African Americans have a right to push for
    equality now.” One can infer that this was in response to critics arguing
    that the movement should go slowly.

48. A Freedom Summer was a voter registration drive, so that likely
    contributed to Congress passing the Voting Rights Act.

49. B The Berlin Airlift was a response to the Soviet blockade of West
    Berlin. Western allied nations organized air-drop delivery of supplies
    to the people of West Berlin.

50. C This is known as the Holocaust, or Shoah.

51. A Israel was founded to be a safe place for Jewish people, particularly
    ones who had been displaced by World War II.

52. Segregation: Jim Crow laws, Plessy v. Ferguson, Ku Klux Klan;
    Desegregation: Brown v. Board of Education, Civil Rights Act of 1964,
    NAACP

53. Illinois The medium shade of gray represents states in which women
    could vote for president prior to the passing of the Nineteenth
    Amendment. Only Choice A (Illinois) is one of those states.

54. C Most of the states that had no voting rights for women until the
    passing of the Nineteenth Amendment (those shaded black) are in the
    Southeast.

55. A Most of the laws relate to the poor and minority groups.

56. D In order to staff all these programs, the size of the federal
    government must have increased.
57. B Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, though
    the Balkan regions were largely Slavic. Tensions grew due to the
    Balkans’ desire for autonomy.

58. A This conflict is over weapons, and Britain and Germany were both
    major powers.

59. C Nations that conquered additional territories could feel more
    powerful, so their imperialism fed further national pride, which
    increased the desire for even larger empires.

60. First, Solidarity candidates win elections in Poland; second, the Berlin
    wall is torn down; third, Boris Yeltsin is elected president of Russia;
    fourth, Estonia declares independence; fifth, Coup against Gorbachev
    is defeated.

61. D Because the Cold War was primarily a conflict between the United
    States and the Soviet Union, the dissolution of the Soviet Union ended
    it.

62. Germany; the United States or the Soviet Union

63. A The last line of the chart says that Wilson was unsuccessful in
    getting the United States to join the League of Nations.

64. D Russia experienced a revolution in 1917 that completely changed its
    style of government from a monarchy to a communist government.

65. C Germany had lost a lot of its former territory and was forced to pay
    reparations.

66. Germany: Hitler, Holocaust, invaded Soviet Union, Nazism; Italy:
    Fascism, Mussolini, invaded Ethiopia; Soviet Union: U.S. ally in
    WWII, Stalin, Communism

67. totalitarian
68. C The GI Bill was intended to provide returning veterans with aid for
    education and housing.

69. B The Trail of Tears was the forced removal of Native American tribes
    from their lands.

70. Texas—all the cattle drives shown originate in Texas.

71. D Journalists who attacked industry leaders and institutions as corrupt
    were called “muckrakers.”

72. A The passage describes sweatshops.

73. C The Louisiana Purchase nearly doubled the size of the United States
    at that time.

74. D The period from 1930–1932 shows a significant drop.

75. C As U.S. settlers moved west, Native Americans were pushed out of
    their lands. The map shows a trend of forced removals going from east
    to west.


Chapter 3: Economics
1. B A toll road is a place where the seller of a service meets with buyers.

2. Marina’s income is commission, which is based solely on sales.

3. Donna’s income is a combination of an hourly wage, which is a
    guaranteed base salary, plus a productivity bonus, which is an incentive
    based on output.

4. Gerald works full time for a set weekly salary.

5. D Having 55+ companies allows for a lot of competition.
6. A The web search market has 2 companies that control 87% of the
    market.

7. oligopolies—the cell phone supplier and the auto manufacturing
    markets both have limited competition, so they are oligopolies.

8. B The Federal Trade Commission must ensure competition.

9. A Profit and interest are both extra amounts of money over the base
    amount.

10. B A is price.

11. C B is quantity.

12. D D is supply.

13. equilibrium price

14. D A market is where a supplier (the job seeker) and a buyer (the
    employer) meet.

15. B Entrepreneurship involves taking risk for reward.

16. D A tariff is a tax paid on a class of import or export. This is like a
    sales tax.

17. 2 Physical capital includes machinery.

18. 1 Labor is human physical or mental effort.

19. D Antitrust means preventing monopolies.

20. Graph 1 shows a basic supply curve.

21. Graph 3 shows increased production.

22. Graph 6 shows the effect of reduced price on a demand curve.
23. D Capital investment typically refers to acquisition of machinery or
    manufacturing plants that increase productivity.

24. C Only choice C involves humans.

25. D Wants + limited resources result in scarcity.

26. D Wants + limited resources result in scarcity.

27. installment credit

28. C Finance charges also include any fees on the loan or credit
    agreement.

29. Graph 3 shows the effect of lowering tariffs on a supply curve.

30. Graph 2 shows the effect of lowering tariffs on a demand curve.

31. B Barriers to entry are low in the dry-cleaning market. There is very
    little expensive equipment needed and little to no training required for
    employees.

32. C The law of supply states that supply increases as prices increases.

33. B The diagram illustrates a circular flow of goods and services.

34. C Households own the factors of production (land, labor, and capital).

35. A The government also provides services and purchases factors.

36. D The government increased spending to create jobs and stimulate the
    economy.

37. A The steam engine was a new source of power that increased
    productivity.

38. C The Federal Reserve Board oversees U.S. monetary policy.

39. B Traditional economies use resources efficiently.
40. C Command economies have low productivity and efficiency.

41. D The U.S. has a mixed economy.

42. 3 Drawing 3 shows a cost (pollution) being imposed on others by a
    factory’s behavior.

43. B Government can enact workplace health and safety laws to protect
    workers when a market may not do so on its own.

44. C In a particular area, sports teams have a monopoly. For example, a
    city typically has only one professional football team.

45. A There are many, many types of entertainment, so a sports team is
    just a small part of the free competition there.

46. B The chart says that the Federal Open Market Committee sets
    national monetary policy.

47. D The second point listed in the box for the Federal Reserve Banks
    says that they regulate banking.

48. A Comparative advantage is the ability to carry out one economic
    activity more efficiently than another.

49. C Specialization is the practice of each party producing the goods and
    services that it is best at.

50. D The Truth in Lending Act says what information lenders must
    disclose.

51. A The Equal Credit Opportunity Act bans discrimination.

52. C Consumer protection laws, much like health and safety laws, address
    market failures.

53. B Opportunity cost is potential gain that is lost by choosing one
    alternative rather than another.
54. 2009 The Consumer Price Index rose most sharply between 2009 and
    2010.

55. 2008 There is a huge drop in the Consumer Price Index after 2008.

56. B Consumer Price Index shows inflation and deflation.

57. B The U.S. is at 1.6% and China is at 7.7%. 7.7 ÷ 1.6 = 4.81.

58. A The largest growth in GDP is for China, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, and
    India. These are all newly industrialized nations.

59. B The lowest part of the graph after 2001 is around January 2007.

60. C The sharpest rise on the graph is just after January 2009.

61. D Each country has largely different imports and exports, which shows
    that their economies are specialized and that they depend upon each
    other.

62. B Japan exports no energy products and imports petroleum, coal, and
    natural gas.

63. A People are only counted as unemployed if they have actively looked
    for work in the last 4 weeks. If they stopped looking for work, even
    though they are still unemployed, they are not counted.

64. A The chart shows the three categories of bank functions.

65. C Banks pay interest to attract depositors.

66. D Economic stimulation is primarily done through lending.

67. B Two causes are listed: desire for greater share of Asian trade and
    desire for personal wealth.

68. D Both are insured, so risk is low.
69. A Comparing the columns for risk and reward shows that greater risk
    correlates with greater potential for reward.

70. B The idea that the universe can be understood and the development of
    the scientific method led to development of new technology that fueled
    the Industrial Revolution.

71. A The development of political economy is part of the Enlightenment,
    which was an emphasis on the application of reason and observation.

72. D Taxation reduces income that could be spent on consumer goods and
    services.

73. C The box that lists “Economic Effects in Germany” shows that the
    reparations Germany was supposed to pay were very difficult for the
    country to accomplish.

74. A Industrialization had grown in the North during the war and was able
    to continue growing after victory.

75. D Oversupply led to price reduction.


Chapter 4: Geography and the World
1. B Mexico is the only choice that meets the definition. It has a common
    government and laws.

2. D The United States does not have a community of ethnicity, language,
    or religion.

3. C Europe is expected to decline from 0.74 billion to 0.71 billion.

4. B Africa is expected to grow from 1.11 billion to 2.39 billion, an
    increase of more than double.

5. A With a population that doubles, Africa will have employment
    challenges. Europe may have an excess of workers because its
   population is expected to decline.

6. D The footnote for the chart shows that Organisation for Economic
    Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries include “most of the
    major world industrial powers.”

7. B In 2030, Asia is expected to consume 290 quadrillion Btus (British
    thermal units); and OECD countries, 269 quadrillion Btus.

8. B The OECD countries are already industrialized, so their rate of energy
    use is relatively stable. Many of the non-OECD countries are in the
    process of industrialization, so their rate of energy use is growing.

9. C Sustainability means using resources responsibly so that they are not
    completely depleted.

10. A A map’s title explains what the map is about.

11. B Feature B is the map’s scale.

12. C Each of the four purposes listed is about peace and cooperation
    between nations.

13. D The second goal involves equal rights and self-determination. That
    justifies supporting independence.

14. A A global positioning system (GPS) shows location.

