    _______to renounce allegiance to any foreign country

Question 95 is based on the following mission statement from the National
Institutes of Health.

“NIH’s mission is to seek fundamental knowledge about the nature and
behavior of living systems and the application of that knowledge to
enhance health, lengthen life, and reduce illness and disability.”

95. Which of the following would be most consistent with the mission of
    the National Institutes of Health?
    A. researching the biological effects of environmental contaminants
    B. providing funding for research on capital punishment
    C. cleaning up contaminated land
    D. protecting and managing natural resources

Question 96 is based on the following information on how legislation is
introduced.
“Beginning of a Bill: An idea for a bill may come from anybody, however
only Members of Congress can introduce a bill in Congress. Bills can be
introduced at any time the House is in session. There are four basic types
of legislation: bills; joint resolutions; concurrent resolutions; and simple
resolutions. A bill’s type must be determined. A private bill affects a
specific person or organization rather than the population at large. A
public bill is one that affects the general public.

“Proposal of a Bill: After the idea for a bill is developed and the text of the
bill is written, a Member of Congress must officially introduce the bill in
Congress by becoming the bill’s sponsor. Representatives usually sponsor
bills that are important to them and their constituents. Representatives
who sponsor bills will try to gain support for them, in hopes that they will
become laws. Two or more sponsors for the same bill are called co-
sponsors.”

Source: https://lucas.house.gov/legislative-work/how-bill-becomes-law.

96. Place the following steps in the correct order. Indicate the box where
    each step belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each
    step and “drag” it into the correct box.)
    •   a member of Congress sponsors the bill
    •   the text of the bill is written
    •   representatives work to gain support for the bill
    •   someone has an idea for a bill
    •   the bill’s type is determined
Question 97 is based on the following organizational chart from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
    Source: https://www.justice.gov/jmd/organization-mission-and-
       functions-manual-federal-bureau-investigation.

97. Which of the following is not under the supervision of the Associate
    Deputy Director?
    A. the Office of Partner Engagement
    B. the Resource Planning Office
    C. the Security Division
    D. the Human Resources Division

Question 98 is based on the following New York voter registration card.
    Source: http://assembly.state.ny.us/comm/ELaw/20040210/form.html.

98. Which of the following people is not eligible to vote in New York?
    A. a 19-year-old student
    B. a person who is a naturalized U.S. citizen
    C. a person who resides in New Jersey but works in New York
    D. a person who holds public office in New York

Question 99 is based on the following information about jury eligibility.

To be legally qualified for jury service, an individual must:

    • be a United States citizen;
    • be at least 18 years of age;
    • reside primarily in the judicial district for one year;
    • be adequately proficient in English to satisfactorily complete the
       juror qualification form;
    • have no disqualifying mental or physical condition;
    • not currently be subject to felony charges punishable by
      imprisonment for more than one year; and
    • never have been convicted of a felony (unless civil rights have been
      legally restored)

There are three groups that are exempt from federal jury service:

    • members of the armed forces on active duty;
    • members of professional fire and police departments; and
    • “public officers” of federal, state, or local governments who are
      actively engaged full-time in the performance of public duties.

Persons employed on a full-time basis in any of these categories are barred
from serving on federal juries, even if they desire to do so.

[Source: http://www.uscourts.gov/services-forms/jury-service/juror-
qualifications.]

99. Which of the following people are not allowed to serve on a federal
    jury?
    A. a person who was previously convicted of a misdemeanor crime
    B. a person who works as a volunteer firefighter
    C. a retired U.S. Navy officer
    D. a person who works as a full-time police department dispatcher

100. Which of the following types of government would be most likely to
   hold a free and fair election to choose a leader?
    A. theocracy
    B. democracy
    C. monarchy
    D. oligarchy
THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 1: CIVICS AND GOVERNMENT.
                         CHAPTER 2
                         U.S. History
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 174.

Questions 1–2 are based on the following quotation:

“We, whose names are underwritten, the Loyal Subjects of our dread
sovereign lord King James, by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France,
and Ireland, king, defender of the faith, [etcetera], having undertaken for
the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian faith, and the honor of
our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern
parts of Virginia; do. . . solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God and
one another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body
politic, for our better ordering and preservation, and furtherance of the
ends aforesaid: and by virtue hereof do enact, constitute, and frame, such
just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and officers, from time
to time, as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good
of the colony; unto which we promise all due submission and obedience.”

                                   —from The Mayflower Compact (1620)

 1. Which group of settlers wrote and signed this agreement in 1620?
    A. the English settlers of Jamestown, Virginia
    B. the Pilgrims who settled Plymouth, Massachusetts
    C. the Quakers who settled Pennsylvania
    D. the Catholics who settled Maryland

 2. Why is this document considered a founding document in American
    self-government?
  A. The signers pledge to one another that they will form a civil
     government and obey its laws.
  B. The signers received the right to govern themselves by a charter
     granted by King James.
  C. It is the first formal constitution written in what became the United
     States.
  D. It is the first document establishing a government that was put to a
     popular vote.

3. The delegates at the Constitutional Convention agreed on three
   important compromises to resolve differences over the new
   government that they were creating under the Constitution. Match each
   of the three compromises with the issue it resolved. Indicate the box
   where each compromise belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you
   will click on each compromise and “drag” it into the correct box.)




4. Indicate the box where each characteristic of the Articles of
   Confederation belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on
   each characteristic and “drag” it into the correct box.)
Questions 5–7 are based on the following map:




   Source: National Park Service.
 5. Which of the following describes the internment of Japanese
    Americans during World War II?
    A. relocation from the coasts to the interior of the country
    B. relocation moved from the Mountain West to the West Coast
    C. relocation from the West Coast to the interior West and Southwest
    D. relocation from the East Coast to the West and West Coast

 6. Which president issued Executive Order 9066, which led to the
    internment of Japanese Americans during World War II?
    A. Dwight D. Eisenhower
    B. Franklin D. Roosevelt
    C. Harry S Truman
    D. Woodrow Wilson

 7. The placement of Japanese Americans in internment camps was most
    similar to what other action targeting a specific racial or ethnic group?
    A. segregation of African Americans
    B. reservation policy regarding Native Americans
    C. Bracero program for Mexican immigrants
    D. quota system for Eastern European immigrants

Question 8 is based on the following print:
   Source: Library of Congress.

 8. This print shows the burning of Washington, D.C., by British troops,
    which took place during what conflict?
   A. American Revolution
   B. Civil War
   C. French and Indian War
   D. War of 1812

Questions 9–10 are based on the following graph:
    Source: U.S. Dept. of Justice.

 9. In which fiscal year did the FBI most likely have funding cuts? Write
    your answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

10. Which statement best explains the rise in employees dedicated to
    intelligence analysis in these years?
    A. top priority given to investigating organized crime
    B. sharp increase in illegal surveillance of Americans
    C. growing emphasis on fighting terrorism
    D. shift from field agents to analysts

Questions 11–13 are based on the following quotation:
“12. No scutage [a special tax] nor aid shall be imposed on our kingdom,
unless by common counsel of our kingdom, except for ransoming our
person, for making our eldest son a knight, and for once marrying our
eldest daughter; and for these there shall not be levied more than a
reasonable aid. . . .

14. And for obtaining the common counsel of the kingdom [regarding] the
assessing of an aid (except in the three cases aforesaid) or of a scutage, we
will cause to be summoned the archbishops, bishops, abbots, earls, and
greater barons, severally by our letters; and we will moreover cause to be
summoned generally, through our sheriffs and bailiffs, and others who
hold of us in chief, for a fixed date . . . and at a fixed place; and in all
letters of such summons we will specify the reason of the summons. . . .

20. A freeman shall not be [fined] for a slight offense, except in
accordance with the degree of the offense; and for a grave offense he shall
be [fined] in accordance with the gravity of the offense, . . . and none of
the aforesaid [fines] shall be imposed except by the oath of honest men of
the neighborhood.

39. No freemen shall be taken or imprisoned or [deprived of property] or
exiled or in any way destroyed, nor will we go upon him nor send upon
him, except by the lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land.”

                                            —from the Magna Carta (1215)


11. The following sentence contains blanks marked                       .
    Beneath each one is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
    and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
    will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
    will appear in the blank.)
The first two clauses quoted in this excerpt address issues of




                         .

The second two clauses address the issues of




12. What principle underlying American democracy does the Magna Carta
    represent, as shown in these passages?
    A. federalism
    B. minority rights
    C. representative government
