protest or for other reasons, and to ask the government to fix problems. It
also protects the right to religious beliefs and practices. It prevents the
government from creating or favoring a religion.
    The Second Amendment protects the right to keep and bear arms.
    The Third Amendment prevents government from forcing homeowners
to allow soldiers to use their homes. Before the Revolutionary War, laws
gave British soldiers the right to take over private homes.
    The Fourth Amendment bars the government from unreasonable search
and seizure of an individual or their private property.
    The Fifth Amendment provides several protections for people accused
of crimes. It states that serious criminal charges must be started by a grand
jury. A person cannot be tried twice for the same offense (double jeopardy)
or have property taken away without just compensation. People have the
right against self-incrimination and cannot be imprisoned without due
process of law (fair procedures and trials).
    The Sixth Amendment provides additional protections to people
accused of crimes, such as the right to a speedy and public trial, trial by an
impartial jury in criminal cases, and to be informed of criminal charges.
Witnesses must face the accused, and the accused is allowed his or her
own witnesses and to be represented by a lawyer.
    The Seventh Amendment extends the right to a jury trial in Federal
civil cases.
    The Eighth Amendment bars excessive bail and fines and cruel and
unusual punishment.
    The Ninth Amendment states that listing specific rights in the
Constitution does not mean that people do not have other rights that have
not been spelled out.
    The Tenth Amendment says that the Federal Government only has
those powers delegated in the Constitution. If it isn’t listed, it belongs to
the states or to the people.

                                     Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
     [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/bill-of-rights/what-
                                                                  does-it-
 say#:~:text=The%20Bill%20of%20Rights%20is,speech%2C%20press%2
                                                 C%20and%20religion.]

38. Which amendment in the Bill of Rights is the basis of the claim of
    some legal thinkers that capital punishment is unconstitutional?
    A. First
    B. Fifth
    C. Sixth
    D. Eighth

39. When police have a person in custody whom they wish to question
    regarding possible involvement in a crime, they are required, as a
    result of the Supreme Court decision in Miranda v. Arizona, to read
    this statement:
   “You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be
   used against you in a court of law. You have a right to an attorney. If
   you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for you.”

   Based on the passage, this statement is meant to protect the accused
   person’s rights under which amendments of the Bill of Rights?
    A. First and Second
    B. Third and Fourth
    C. Fifth and Sixth
    D. Seventh and Eighth

Question 40 is based on the following quote from the Ninth Amendment.

“The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be
construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”

40. What does the word enumeration mean?
    A. mentioning several things one by one
    B. counting how many times something appears
    C. explaining the meaning of something
    D. listing things in the order of their importance




            THIS IS THE END OF THE SOCIAL STUDIES PRETEST.


Answers and Explanations
 1. popular sovereignty “We the people . . . do ordain and establish”
    means that the people have the power. This is popular sovereignty.

 2. A The president makes treaties, but the Senate must approve. This is
    our system of checks and balances.
 3. B The amendments in the Bill of Rights establish the rights of the
    people and limit the powers of the federal government.

 4. A When production costs are lower, profits are higher. Suppliers
    increase supply to gain more of those higher profits.

 5. 1 The quote relates to the rights of citizens, which is the first
    provision.

 6. D In 1865 slavery is abolished; in 1868 citizenship is granted to
    former slaves; in 1870 African American men are given the right to
    vote.

 7. C Local governments are established by municipal governments.

 8. C Individual taxes account for 50.1% and business income taxes
    account for 11.9%. 50.1 ÷ 11.9 = 4.21. This is approximately four
    times more.

 9. increases The law of supply states that as price increases, supply
    increases.

10. C The chart states that market economies are highly productive and
    that mixed economies have the same benefits, though slightly reduced.
    Therefore, mixed economy is likely to be the second most productive.

11. A A market economy has high freedom of choice and high
    innovation. This favors entrepreneurs.

12. A If wool suits were cheaper, demand for them would be higher.
    Because wool suits must be dry cleaned, this would also increase
    demand for that service.

13. D The urban population in 1950 was approximately 63%. In 2010, it
    was approximately 78%. That is an increase of 15%.

14. B Urban growth stayed the same from 1930–1940 and then again
    from 1970–1980. Only the 1930s is an answer choice.
15. 1912 In 1912, the third-party candidate received electoral votes and a
    large percentage of the popular vote.

16. A According to the map key, Arizona and New Mexico were
    territories rather than states in 1908.




17.

18. B The last paragraph says that the state law is unconstitutional.

19. D The first and third paragraphs mention the supremacy of the U.S.
    Constitution.

20. A According to the charts, the Missouri River is the longest at 2500
    miles, and the Mississippi River has the largest drainage basin at
    approximately 1.15 million square miles.

21. C If a river has many tributaries, it spreads out the drainage, resulting
    in a larger drainage basin.

22. B The map shows that Florida became part of the United States
    through “Spanish Cession, 1819.”
23.

24. B The map does not show Alaska or Hawaii.

25. $1.25 The supply and demand lines meet at $1.25.

26. B If the taxes are paid by workers and employers, they are part of
    employment taxes.

27. B The top line on the graph in 2040 is for petroleum.

28. D They are not shown on the graph, so would be included in the
    category for “other.”

29. B The steepest increase is for the natural gas line.

30. D The Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965 during the civil rights
    movement.

31. B The Twenty-Sixth Amendment in 1971 gave 18-year-olds the right
    to vote.

32. C White men who did not own property got the vote in the 1830s;
    women got the vote in 1920; Native Americans got the vote in 1924.

33. B The Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery in all states. The
    Emancipation Proclamation only abolished slavery in the rebelling
    Confederate states.

34. C The demand for fresh foods would not increase because of an
    expected future price increase, as fresh food must be used very soon
   after purchase.

35. B Communist countries have command economies. After the Cold
    War, many shifted to mixed economies.

36. D The passage discusses how a president may veto a bill and how
    Congress can override the veto.

37. C President Wilson served during World War I.

38. D The objection that some make to capital punishment is that it
    violates the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment.

39. C The Miranda warning is a reminder of the Fifth Amendment right
    not to testify against oneself and the Sixth Amendment right to legal
    counsel.

40. A Enumeration here means listing each right one by one. The Ninth
    Amendment says that even though a right may not be specifically
    listed in the Constitution, it remains with the people.


Evaluation Chart
Circle the number of each question that you missed. To the right of the
numbers below, you will find the titles of the chapters that cover the skills
you need to solve the problems. More question numbers circled in any row
                                                                     ®
means more attention is needed to sharpen those skills for the GED Test.
If you find you need instruction before you are ready to practice with this
workbook, we offer several excellent options:
                                                   ®
McGraw-Hill Education Preparation for the GED Test: This book
contains a complete test preparation program with intensive review and
practice for the topics tested on the GED®.
                                   ®
McGraw-Hill Education Pre-GED : This book is a beginner’s guide for
students who need to develop a solid foundation or refresh basic skills
                                                            ®
before they embark on formal preparation for the GED test.
                                                    ®
McGraw-Hill Education Short Course for the GED : This book provides a
                                                        ®
concise review of all the essential topics on the GED , with numerous
additional practice questions.
                         CHAPTER 1
             Civics and Government
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 171.

Questions 1–2 are based on the following quotation:

“All men are naturally in . . . a state of perfect freedom to order their
actions, and dispose of their possessions and persons, as they think fit,
within the bounds of the law of nature, without asking leave [of], or
depending upon the will of any other man.”

                             —John Locke, Second Treatise on Government


 1. Which principle that contributed to American constitutional
    democracy does this quotation represent?
    A. natural rights philosophy
    B. consent of the governed
    C. majority rule
    D. separation of powers

 2. Which of the following phrases from the U.S. Declaration of
    Independence reflects Locke’s thinking in this quotation?
    A. “Whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these
       ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it.”
    B. “We, therefore . . . declare, That these United Colonies are, and of
       Right ought to be Free and Independent States.”
   C. “All men . . . are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
      Rights.”
   D. “The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of
      repeated injuries and usurpations.”

Questions 3–4 are based on the following diagram:




 3. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)
4. What was the purpose of the delegates at the Constitutional
   Convention in creating the system of checks and balances?
  A. to ensure popular sovereignty
  B. to limit government power
  C. to promote the federal system
  D. to guarantee majority rule

5. What is the form of government of the United States and each of the
   fifty states?
  A. representative democracy
  B. direct democracy
  C. parliamentary democracy
  D. presidential democracy

6. Which of the following is a modern example of direct democracy?
  A. Athenian democracy
  B. state legislatures
  C. school boards
  D. New England town meetings
Questions 7–9 are based on the following chart:




 7. Which statement best explains why both the state and federal
    governments have the power to tax?
    A. Politicians generally favor high taxes.
    B. Governments must have revenue to be able to act.
    C. The American system is built on double taxation.
    D. Taxation without representation is tyranny.

 8. A trade agreement with Canada would fall under federal authority on
    the basis of which power?
    A. regulating commerce between states
    B. creating and running the postal system
    C. granting charters to banks
    D. managing relations with other countries

 9. Which principle of the U.S. Constitution is demonstrated by the
    division of powers between the state and federal governments shown in
    the chart?
    A. federalism
    B. separation of powers
    C. check and balances
    D. popular sovereignty

10. Under the U.S. Constitution, what is the chief responsibility assigned
    to the vice president of the United States?
    A. attend official meetings on behalf of the president
    B. preside over Senate sessions
    C. cast tie-breaking votes in the House
    D. advise the president

Question 11 is based on the following passage:
The United States can be characterized as a Presidential Democracy and
Great Britain can be characterized as a Parliamentary Democracy. While
both the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great
Britain head the executive branch of their respective governments, there
are some significant differences between them. The British prime minister
is elected by voters from one parliamentary district, then chosen by
members of Parliament. The U.S. president is elected by all of a country’s
voters via the electoral college system. The British prime minister serves a
maximum term of five years before new elections must be held, but there
is no limit on the number of terms that may be served. In contrast, the U.S.
president serves a maximum of two four-year terms.
    The leaders also differ in terms of the powers they exert over other
parts of the government. The U.S. president appoints members of the
cabinet, with Senate approval, and can fire people without approval. The
British prime minister appoints and fires members of cabinet, although the
monarch must approve those decisions. The U.S. president cannot disband
Congress and force new elections, but the British prime minister can
disband Parliament and force new elections. The U.S. president also has
the power to veto bills, while the British prime minister does not have the
power to veto bills.

11. What is a major difference between the British prime minister and the
    U.S. president?
    A. The prime minister, not the president, has the power to disband the
       legislature and force new elections.
    B. The prime minister, not the president, has the power to veto bills.
    C. The president, not the prime minister, has no term limits.
    D. The president, not the prime minister, is also a member of the
       legislature.

12. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)




13. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    The president is elected by a majority of .
14. Which official serves for life, unless removed from office by
    impeachment?
    A. member of the U.S. House
    B. president
    C. Supreme Court justice
    D. U.S. senator

Questions 15–16 are based on the following quotation:

“A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State,
the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.”

                   —U.S. Constitution, Second Amendment (ratified 1781)

15. This amendment is at the heart of what contemporary public policy
    issue?
    A. government intelligence gathering on U.S. citizens
    B. civilian control of the military
    C. gun control
    D. limits on immigration

16. Many opponents of any laws to place limits on gun ownership base
    their opposition on this amendment. Which of the following is the best
    legal argument to counter that position?
    A. “The people who wrote the Bill of Rights could not imagine how
       murderous modern weapons could be.”
    B. “The right to own guns was important when the country had no
       standing army and a militia was needed for defense.”
    C. “The United States has more handgun deaths than any other
       industrialized country in the world.”
    D. “The presence of handguns in a home raises the risk that a child
       will take the weapon, leading to a tragic accident.”

17. The separation of church and state, established by the First
    Amendment, is used by judges to prohibit which of the following
    actions?
    A. abortion
    B. stem-cell research
    C. gay marriage
    D. prayer in public school

18. In 1992, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled (in R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul)
    that a Minnesota law that made it illegal to burn a cross for the
    purpose of arousing anger or resentment against an individual or group
    on the basis of that individual’s or group’s race, color, religion, or
    gender would be overturned. What was most likely the rationale for the
    Court’s decision to overturn this law?
    A. The law violated the First Amendment right of free speech.
    B. The law violated the Fifth Amendment protection of due process.
    C. The law violated the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual
       punishment.
    D. The law violated the Fourteenth Amendment ban on equal
       protection under the law.

19. Which of the following individuals would be most likely to favor limits
    on free speech?
    A. an artist whose work challenges traditional religion
    B. a comedian who writes satires about government officials
    C. a researcher who thinks that pornography is linked to violence
       against children
    D. an antiabortion activist who pickets abortion clinics

