Copyright © 2021 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. Except as
permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this
publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means,
or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written
permission of the publisher.

ISBN: 978-1-26-425792-8
MHID:     1-26-425792-9

The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title:
ISBN: 978-1-26-425791-1, MHID: 1-26-425791-0.

eBook conversion by codeMantra
Version 1.0

All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put
a trademark symbol after every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use
names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit of the trademark
owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such
designations appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.

McGraw-Hill Education eBooks are available at special quantity discounts
to use as premiums and sales promotions or for use in corporate training
programs. To contact a representative, please visit the Contact Us page at
www.mhprofessional.com.

GED® is a registered trademark of the American Council on Education
(ACE) and administered exclusively by GED Testing Service LLC under
license. This content is not endorsed or approved by ACE or GED Testing
Service.

TERMS OF USE

This is a copyrighted work and McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors
reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these
terms. Except as permitted under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right
to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not decompile,
disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works
based upon, transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense
the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill Education’s prior consent.
You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any
other use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may
be terminated if you fail to comply with these terms.

THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL EDUCATION
AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUARANTEES OR WARRANTIES
AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR
RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING
ANY INFORMATION THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE
WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND EXPRESSLY
DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that
the functions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its
operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill
Education nor its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any
inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any
damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill Education has no
responsibility for the content of any information accessed through the
work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill Education and/or its
licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive,
consequential or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to
use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of
such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause
whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or
otherwise.
                           Contents

Introduction
How to Use This Workbook
The GED® Social Studies Test
The Top 25 Things You Need to Know for the GED® Social Studies Test

PRETEST
Answers and Explanations
Evaluation Chart

CHAPTER 1 Civics and Government

CHAPTER 2 U.S. History

CHAPTER 3 Economics

CHAPTER 4 Geography and the World
Answers and Explanations

POSTTEST
Answers and Explanations
Evaluation Chart
Glossary: Important GED® Social Studies Terms
                          Introduction
How to Use This Workbook
This workbook contains practice problems to help you test your social
studies knowledge and reasoning skills in preparation for taking the GED®
Social Studies Test.
    Start your social studies practice by taking the Social Studies Pretest at
the beginning of this workbook. It will help you decide which chapters of
the workbook will be most valuable to you. Take the Pretest in a controlled
environment, with as few distractions as possible. If you want to closely
simulate testing conditions, limit yourself to 70 minutes. When you are
done, or when time is up, check your answers in the Answers and
Explanations section at the end of the Pretest. Next, find the problem
numbers you answered incorrectly in the Evaluation Chart to identify the
chapters on which you need to concentrate.
    Each of the four chapters in the book has dozens of questions on one of
the four content topics that are part of the GED® Social Studies Test. The
questions have also been carefully designed to match each of the
following:
 • the test content,
 • the depth of knowledge (DOK) levels used to measure how well you
   understand each topic,
 • the Common Core State Standards (CCSS) that you are expected to
    have mastered.
    The exercises are not intended to be timed, but if you find that you are
familiar with a topic, you could try timing yourself on a few problems,
attempting to correctly work 5 questions in 10 minutes, for example.
Answers and Explanations for the exercises are located at the back of the
workbook.
    Finally, when you have completed the last exercise, take the Social
Studies Posttest at the back of this workbook. This test can help you to
reevaluate yourself after practicing as much of the workbook as you feel is
necessary. Answers and Explanations are located at the end of the test, and
another Evaluation Chart is provided to help you decide if you are ready to
take the GED® Social Studies Test or where you might need further
practice.
    At the back of the book, you will find a glossary of important terms to
know for the GED® Social Studies Test. You can use this while you study
or as a tool to help you review right before the test.


The GED® Social Studies Test
The GED® Social Studies Test is one section to be completed in 70
minutes.
    The GED® Social Studies Test is a computer-based test, which allows
for a broad range of item types. There are many multiple-choice items,
each of which has four answer choices from which to choose. There are
also many technology-based items with formats such as fill-in-the-blank,
drop-down, and drag-and-drop.
• Fill-in-the-blank: These are short-answer items in which a response
  may be entered directly from the keyboard or in which an expression,
  equation, or inequality may be entered using an on-screen character
  selector with mathematical symbols not found on the keyboard.
• Drop-down: A list of possible responses is displayed when the
  response area is clicked with the mouse. These may occur more than
  once in a sentence or question.
 • Drag-and-drop: Words are moved around the screen by pointing at
    them with the mouse, holding the mouse button down, and then
    releasing the button when the element is positioned over an area on the
    screen. Such items are used for sorting, classifying, or ordering
    questions.
    About 50 percent of the problems on the GED® Social Studies TEst
focus on topics in civics and government. About 20 percent of questions
are on U.S. history. Fifteen percent of the questions address topics in
economics, and 15 percent of the questions cover topics in geography and
the world. As in the GED® Reasoning Through Language Arts Test, many
questions require you to read and interpret a document. That document
might be text, a chart, a graph, a diagram, or a map.
    Visit http://www.ged.com for more about the GED® Test.


The Top 25 Things You Need to Know for the
GED® Social Studies Test
Use this list as a guide for your studies. Be sure to study and practice each
topic until you feel that you have mastered it.

 1. Types of Government: Be familiar with various types of governments
    such as democracy, monarchy, dictatorship, and oligarchy.

 2. Independence: Understand the reasons for and basic tenets of the
    Articles of Confederation and the Declaration of Independence.

 3. Creation of the U.S. Constitution: Know the six basic principles that
    underlie the Constitution: popular sovereignty, limited government,
    separation of powers, checks and balances, judicial review, and
    federalism, and understand the compromises that were made in writing
    the Constitution.

 4. Citizenship: Know the basic rights and responsibilities of U.S.
    citizenship.

 5. Bill of Rights: Understand the reasons for the Bill of Rights and its
    contents.

 6. Amendments: Understand the process of amending the Constitution.

 7. Branches of Government: Understand the functions of each of the
    three branches of the U.S. government and how the system of checks
    and balances works.
 8. Elections: Know the steps in the presidential election process and how
    elections are decided.

 9. Political Parties and Interest Groups: Understand the function and
    influence of political parties and special interest groups.

10. Colonial History: Know how America was first discovered by
    Europeans and how the first 13 colonies were established.

11. Revolutionary War: Know the reasons behind the war; be familiar
    with important battles.

12. U.S. Expansion: Know the basic ideas of the Monroe Doctrine and
    Manifest Destiny; trace the westward expansion of America.

13. Civil War and Reconstruction: Know the reasons behind the war; be
    familiar with important battles; understand the effects of the war and
    the reconstruction effort.

14. Industrialization: Understand how the United States underwent
    industrialization and urbanization; know the effects of those
    transitions.

15. World Wars: Know the reasons behind U.S. involvement in World
    War I (WWI) and World War II (WWII); be familiar with important
    battles of WWI and WWII.

16. United States as a World Power: Explain the Cold War; understand
    how the United States became a superpower and what that entails in
    terms of foreign policy.

17. Economic Fundamentals: Understand opportunity cost, cost-benefit
    analysis, labor, capital, profit, productivity, and entrepreneurship.

18. Markets: Understand the relationships among price, supply, and
    demand.
19. Macroeconomics: Understand fiscal and monetary policies and the
    basics of international trade; define gross domestic product (GDP),
    tariff, inflation, deflation, and unemployment.

20. Microeconomics: Understand the law of supply and demand, banking,
    and credit.

21. Maps: Be familiar with several different types of maps, such as
    topographical maps, climate maps, political maps, and so on;
    understand how to read maps, legends, and keys.

22. Movements of People: Understand migration and push and pull
    factors; be familiar with migration patterns and population trends.

23. Elements of Culture: Understand what makes a culture unique
    (language, religion, ethnic groups, form of government, economic
    system, etc.).

24. Political Ideas: Understand liberalism, conservatism, socialism,
    nationalism, and Marxism.

25. World History: Have a basic outline of world history (see Chapter 4).
                                PRETEST

                       Social Studies
40 questions | 70 minutes
This Pretest is intended to give you an idea of the topics you need to study
                ®
to pass the GED Social Studies Test. Try to answer every question, in a
quiet area and with enough time so that you are free from distractions. The
usual time allotted for the test is 70 minutes. Remember that it is more
important to think about every question than it is to finish ahead of time.
Answers and explanations can be found at the end of the Pretest.

Questions 1–3 are based on the following chart:

                    Principles of the U.S. Constitution




Write your answer in the blank.

 1. The Preamble to the Constitution states that “We the People of the
    United States . . . do ordain and establish this Constitution for the
   United States of America.” This statement embodies the principle
   of_______________.

 2. In 1920, the U.S. Senate voted against ratification of the Treaty of
    Versailles. What principle did this vote exemplify?
    A. checks and balances
    B. federalism
    C. popular sovereignty
    D. republican government

 3. When the Bill of Rights was added to the U.S. Constitution, what
    principle was given greater strength?
    A. checks and balances
    B. limited government
    C. republican government
    D. separation of powers

 4. Why does supply go up when new technology lowers production costs?
    A. Suppliers can make higher profits with lower costs.
    B. Demand for high-technology goods is high.
    C. Government regulation of the product decreases.
    D. Lower costs drive substitute goods out of the market.

Questions 5–6 are based on the following passage:
Between 1865 and 1870, in the five years following the end of the Civil
War, a number of amendments were added to the United States
Constitution. The Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments are
collectively known as the Civil War Amendments or the Reconstruction
Amendments. These amendments were designed to provide equality under
the law for the recently emancipated slaves.
  • The Thirteenth Amendment, passed in 1865, abolishes slavery
     throughout the United States.
 • The Fourteenth Amendment, passed in 1868, has four basic
   provisions:
   1. Defines citizenship and the rights of citizens
   2. Protects voting rights of all citizens or the population basis for
      representation will be reduced
   3. Bars certain former members of the Confederate government from
      elected office
   4. Repudiates the public debt obligations of the Confederate
      government
 • Finally, the Fifteenth Amendment, passed in 1870, extends the right to
   vote to African American men.

Write the provision number in the blank.

 5. The Fourteenth Amendment declares the following: “No State shall
    make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
    immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive
    any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
    deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
    laws.” Which provision of that amendment does that statement reflect?
    _________________________________________________________
       ___
    _________________________________________________________
       ___
    _________________________________________________________
       ___

 6. Which statement best explains the sequence of these amendments?
    A. First: slavery abolished; Second: right to vote of former enslaved
       males guaranteed; Third: citizenship of former enslaved people
       established
    B. First: right to vote of former enslaved males guaranteed; Second:
       citizenship of former enslaved people established; Third: slavery
       abolished
    C. First: citizenship of former enslaved people established; Second:
       slavery abolished; Third: right to vote of former enslaved males
       guaranteed
    D. First: slavery abolished; Second: citizenship of former enslaved
       people established; Third: right to vote of former enslaved males
       guaranteed

 7. Which level of government has the power to create local governments?
    A. county
    B. federal
    C. municipal
    D. state

Question 8 is based on the following graph:
  Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census Statistical Abstract of 2012.

8. Income taxes paid by individuals account for approximately how much
   more of Internal Revenue Service receipts than business income taxes?
  A. half as much
  B. twice as much
  C. four times more
  D. five times more
The following sentence contains a blank marked                       . Beneath
it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and belongs in the
blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will appear as a “drop-
down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will appear in the blank.)

 9. The law of supply and demand states that as the price for a product
    increases, the supply of that product__________________.




Questions 10–11 are based on the following chart:
10. Based on the information in the chart, which type of economy is most
    likely the second most productive?
    A. command
    B. market
    C. mixed
    D. traditional

11. Which aspect of the U.S. economy reflects its roots in a capitalist, or
    market, economic system?
    A. opportunities given entrepreneurs
    B. product safety laws
    C. regulation of monopolies
    D. the Social Security system

12. Which of the following illustrates a complementary good for dry
    cleaning, such that a decrease in the price of the good would cause
    increased demand for that service?
    A. wool suits
    B. T-shirts
    C. jeans
    D. cotton socks

Questions 13–14 are based on the following graph:
   Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census.

13. How much did the U.S. urban population change from 1950 to 2010?
   A. It approximately doubled.
   B. It decreased by almost half.
   C. It decreased to about a third.
   D. It increased about 15 percentage points.

14. Which decade saw no growth in urbanization?
   A. 1900s
   B. 1930s
    C. 2000s
    D. 2010s

            Questions 15–17 are based on the following maps:




Write the election year in the blank.

15. The election of shows the best result for a third-party candidate of the
    four elections.

16. Which statement explains why Arizona and New Mexico are not
    included in the election results in 1908?
    A. They were territories and thus did not have eligible voters.
    B. Their votes were counted too late to be in the final total.
    C. They were still part of Mexico.
    D. Their votes were counted with California’s.

17. Put these elections in order from the closest margin in the electoral
    college to the widest margin in the electoral college.
Write the correct year in each box. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will
click on the items and “drag” each one into the correct box.)




Questions 18–19 are based on the following quotation:

“If we apply the principle for which the State of Maryland contends, to the
constitution generally, we shall find it capable of changing totally the
character of that instrument. We shall find it capable of arresting all the
measures of the government, and of prostrating it at the foot of the States.
The American people have declared their constitution, and the laws made
in pursuance thereof, to be supreme; but this principle would transfer the
supremacy, in fact, to the States.

If the States may tax one instrument, employed by the government in the
execution of its powers, they may tax any and every other instrument. . . .
This was not intended by the American people. They did not design to
make their government dependent on the States. . . .

. . . The States have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede,
burden, or in any manner control, the operations of the constitutional laws
enacted by Congress to carry into execution the powers vested in the
general government. This is, we think, the unavoidable consequence of
that supremacy which the constitution has declared.

We are unanimously of opinion, that the law passed by the legislature of
Maryland, imposing a tax on the Bank of the United States, is
unconstitutional and void.”

           —Chief Justice John Marshall, McCullough v. Maryland (1819)
18. In this decision, Chief Justice John Marshall set what precedent?
    A. declaring a law passed by Congress to be unconstitutional
    B. declaring a state law to be unconstitutional
    C. declaring an action taken by the president to be unconstitutional
    D. overturning an earlier Supreme Court decision

19. On which part of the U.S. Constitution did Marshall base his decision?
    A. the commerce clause
    B. due process protections
    C. the judicial review clause
    D. the supremacy clause

Questions 20–21 are based on the following graphs:




    Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census Statistical Abstract of 2012.

20. Which is the longest river in the United States, and which has the
    largest drainage basin?
    A. Missouri; Mississippi
    B. Mississippi; Missouri
    C. Yukon; Mississippi
    D. St. Lawrence; Rio Grande
21. Which statement best explains why rivers that are longer than other
    rivers nevertheless may have smaller drainage basins?
    A. Drainage decreases as length increases.
    B. The shorter the river, the wider and larger the drainage basin.
    C. Drainage depends on how many tributaries a river has.
    D. Drainage basin size has no relation to a river’s length.

Questions 22–24 are based on the following map:




22. How and when did the United States gain what is now Florida?
    A. from Britain in 1783
    B. from Spain in 1819
    C. in the Louisiana Purchase in 1803
    D. from Mexico in 1848
23. Put these four states in the order in which they were acquired.

Write the correct state in each box. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will
click on the items and “drag” each one into the correct box.)




24. Which states that are now part of the United States do not appear on
    this map?
    A. Georgia and Alabama
    B. Hawaii and Alaska
    C. Massachusetts and Ohio
    D. Oklahoma and Virginia

Question 25 is based on the following graph:
25. Indicate the point on the graph where the price for breakfast
    sandwiches in this market reaches equilibrium. (Note: On the real
    GED® test, you will click on the spot on the graph you want to select.)

26. Social Security taxes paid by workers and employers would be part of
    which category of taxes?
    A. business income taxes
    B. employment taxes
    C. excise taxes
    D. personal income taxes

Questions 27–29 are based on the following graph:
    Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, International
       Energy Outlook 2013.

27. What is expected to be the leading source of energy in the world in
    2040?
    A. coal
    B. petroleum
    C. natural gas
    D. nuclear

28. Which category would include hydroelectric power and other
    renewable sources of energy?
    A. coal
    B. petroleum
    C. natural gas
    D. other

29. Consumption of which energy source is expected to grow most rapidly
    over the period shown on the graph?
    A. petroleum
    B. natural gas
    C. nuclear
    D. other

Questions 30–32 are based on the following timeline:
30. Which action regarding voting happened as a result of the civil rights
    movement?
    A. ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment
    B. ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment
    C. formation of the National Woman Suffrage Association
    D. passage of the Voting Rights Act

31. Which group received voting rights most recently?
    A. African American males
    B. 18- to 21-year-olds
    C. Native Americans
    D. women

32. Which of the following shows the correct order in which the groups
    received voting rights?
    A. women, African American males, 18- to 21-year-olds
    B. Native Americans, African American males, 18- to 21-year-olds
    C. white men without property, women, Native Americans
    D. women, African American males, Native Americans

33. President Abraham Lincoln had issued the Emancipation Proclamation
    during the Civil War. Why, then, was the Thirteenth Amendment
    necessary?
    A. The Supreme Court had ruled the Emancipation Proclamation
       unconstitutional.
    B. The Emancipation Proclamation had applied only to parts of the
       South.
    C. The Emancipation Proclamation had only been a temporary
       measure.
    D. State governments had not enforced the provisions of the
       Emancipation Proclamation.

Question 34 is based on the following passage:
Changes in market conditions often have effects on both the supply and
demand of a product. If new technology cuts production costs for a
product, the supply of that product will increase. If a substitute for a
certain product is introduced to the market, the supply of the original
product will decrease along with the demand for that original product. If
the price of a complementary product falls, then the demand for the main
product will increase along with the demand for the complementary
product. When government regulation of a product increases, the supply of
the product will decrease. When unemployment rises, supply and demand
both decrease. However, when prices are expected to rise in the future,
supply decreases but demand will increase.

34. While demand generally increases if consumers expect a rise in prices
    in the future, to which of the following goods is that dynamic least
    likely to apply?
    A. cars
    B. computers
    C. fresh food
    D. stock shares

35. After the end of the Cold War, the former communist states of Eastern
    Europe and Russia made what economic shift?
    A. from traditional to mixed economies
    B. from command to mixed economies
    C. from mixed to marked economies
    D. from market to command economies

Question 36 is based on the following quotation:

“Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the
Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the
United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it,
with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who
shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to
reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall
agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the
other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved
by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases
the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by yeas and Nays, and the
Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on
the Journal of each House respectively.”

                                     —U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 7

36. What process does this passage describe?
    A. confirmation of presidential appointments
    B. impeachment
    C. naturalization
    D. veto and override

Question 37 is based on the following quotation:

“It will be our wish and purpose that the processes of peace, when they are
begun, shall be absolutely open and that they shall involve and permit
henceforth no secret understandings of any kind. The day of conquest and
aggrandizement is gone by; so is also the day of secret covenants entered
into in the interest of particular governments and likely at some unlooked-
for moment to upset the peace of the world. . . .

We entered this war because violations of right had occurred which
touched us to the quick and made the life of our own people impossible
unless they were corrected and the world secure once for all against their
recurrence. What we demand in this war, therefore, is nothing peculiar to
ourselves. It is that the world be made fit and safe to live in; and
particularly that it be made safe for every peace-loving nation which, like
our own, wishes to live its own life, determine its own institutions, be
assured of justice and fair dealing by the other peoples of the world as
against force and selfish aggression. All the peoples of the world are in
effect partners in this interest, and for our own part we see very clearly
that unless justice be done to others it will not be done to us. The
programme of the world’s peace, therefore, is our programme; and that
programme, the only possible programme.”

                         —President Woodrow Wilson, speech to Congress

37. The points that President Wilson detailed in his speech were meant to
    structure the peace settlement ending what conflict?
    A. the American Revolution
    B. the Civil War
    C. World War I
    D. World War II

Questions 38–40 are based on the following passage:

The Bill of Rights is the first ten Amendments to the Constitution. It spells
out Americans’ rights in relation to their government. It guarantees civil
rights and liberties to the individual—like freedom of speech, press, and
religion. It sets rules for due process of law and reserves all powers not
delegated to the Federal Government to the people or the States. And it
specifies that “the enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall
not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
    The First Amendment provides several rights protections: to express
ideas through speech and the press, to assemble or gather with a group to
protest or for other reasons, and to ask the government to fix problems. It
also protects the right to religious beliefs and practices. It prevents the
government from creating or favoring a religion.
    The Second Amendment protects the right to keep and bear arms.
    The Third Amendment prevents government from forcing homeowners
to allow soldiers to use their homes. Before the Revolutionary War, laws
gave British soldiers the right to take over private homes.
    The Fourth Amendment bars the government from unreasonable search
and seizure of an individual or their private property.
    The Fifth Amendment provides several protections for people accused
of crimes. It states that serious criminal charges must be started by a grand
jury. A person cannot be tried twice for the same offense (double jeopardy)
or have property taken away without just compensation. People have the
right against self-incrimination and cannot be imprisoned without due
process of law (fair procedures and trials).
    The Sixth Amendment provides additional protections to people
accused of crimes, such as the right to a speedy and public trial, trial by an
impartial jury in criminal cases, and to be informed of criminal charges.
Witnesses must face the accused, and the accused is allowed his or her
own witnesses and to be represented by a lawyer.
    The Seventh Amendment extends the right to a jury trial in Federal
civil cases.
    The Eighth Amendment bars excessive bail and fines and cruel and
unusual punishment.
    The Ninth Amendment states that listing specific rights in the
Constitution does not mean that people do not have other rights that have
not been spelled out.
    The Tenth Amendment says that the Federal Government only has
those powers delegated in the Constitution. If it isn’t listed, it belongs to
the states or to the people.

                                     Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
     [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/bill-of-rights/what-
                                                                  does-it-
 say#:~:text=The%20Bill%20of%20Rights%20is,speech%2C%20press%2
                                                 C%20and%20religion.]

38. Which amendment in the Bill of Rights is the basis of the claim of
    some legal thinkers that capital punishment is unconstitutional?
    A. First
    B. Fifth
    C. Sixth
    D. Eighth

39. When police have a person in custody whom they wish to question
    regarding possible involvement in a crime, they are required, as a
    result of the Supreme Court decision in Miranda v. Arizona, to read
    this statement:
   “You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be
   used against you in a court of law. You have a right to an attorney. If
   you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for you.”

   Based on the passage, this statement is meant to protect the accused
   person’s rights under which amendments of the Bill of Rights?
    A. First and Second
    B. Third and Fourth
    C. Fifth and Sixth
    D. Seventh and Eighth

Question 40 is based on the following quote from the Ninth Amendment.

“The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be
construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”

40. What does the word enumeration mean?
    A. mentioning several things one by one
    B. counting how many times something appears
    C. explaining the meaning of something
    D. listing things in the order of their importance




            THIS IS THE END OF THE SOCIAL STUDIES PRETEST.


Answers and Explanations
 1. popular sovereignty “We the people . . . do ordain and establish”
    means that the people have the power. This is popular sovereignty.

 2. A The president makes treaties, but the Senate must approve. This is
    our system of checks and balances.
 3. B The amendments in the Bill of Rights establish the rights of the
    people and limit the powers of the federal government.

 4. A When production costs are lower, profits are higher. Suppliers
    increase supply to gain more of those higher profits.

 5. 1 The quote relates to the rights of citizens, which is the first
    provision.

 6. D In 1865 slavery is abolished; in 1868 citizenship is granted to
    former slaves; in 1870 African American men are given the right to
    vote.

 7. C Local governments are established by municipal governments.

 8. C Individual taxes account for 50.1% and business income taxes
    account for 11.9%. 50.1 ÷ 11.9 = 4.21. This is approximately four
    times more.

 9. increases The law of supply states that as price increases, supply
    increases.

10. C The chart states that market economies are highly productive and
    that mixed economies have the same benefits, though slightly reduced.
    Therefore, mixed economy is likely to be the second most productive.

11. A A market economy has high freedom of choice and high
    innovation. This favors entrepreneurs.

12. A If wool suits were cheaper, demand for them would be higher.
    Because wool suits must be dry cleaned, this would also increase
    demand for that service.

13. D The urban population in 1950 was approximately 63%. In 2010, it
    was approximately 78%. That is an increase of 15%.

14. B Urban growth stayed the same from 1930–1940 and then again
    from 1970–1980. Only the 1930s is an answer choice.
15. 1912 In 1912, the third-party candidate received electoral votes and a
    large percentage of the popular vote.

16. A According to the map key, Arizona and New Mexico were
    territories rather than states in 1908.




17.

18. B The last paragraph says that the state law is unconstitutional.

19. D The first and third paragraphs mention the supremacy of the U.S.
    Constitution.

20. A According to the charts, the Missouri River is the longest at 2500
    miles, and the Mississippi River has the largest drainage basin at
    approximately 1.15 million square miles.

21. C If a river has many tributaries, it spreads out the drainage, resulting
    in a larger drainage basin.

22. B The map shows that Florida became part of the United States
    through “Spanish Cession, 1819.”
23.

24. B The map does not show Alaska or Hawaii.

25. $1.25 The supply and demand lines meet at $1.25.

26. B If the taxes are paid by workers and employers, they are part of
    employment taxes.

27. B The top line on the graph in 2040 is for petroleum.

28. D They are not shown on the graph, so would be included in the
    category for “other.”

29. B The steepest increase is for the natural gas line.

30. D The Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965 during the civil rights
    movement.

31. B The Twenty-Sixth Amendment in 1971 gave 18-year-olds the right
    to vote.

32. C White men who did not own property got the vote in the 1830s;
    women got the vote in 1920; Native Americans got the vote in 1924.

33. B The Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery in all states. The
    Emancipation Proclamation only abolished slavery in the rebelling
    Confederate states.

34. C The demand for fresh foods would not increase because of an
    expected future price increase, as fresh food must be used very soon
   after purchase.

35. B Communist countries have command economies. After the Cold
    War, many shifted to mixed economies.

36. D The passage discusses how a president may veto a bill and how
    Congress can override the veto.

37. C President Wilson served during World War I.

38. D The objection that some make to capital punishment is that it
    violates the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment.

39. C The Miranda warning is a reminder of the Fifth Amendment right
    not to testify against oneself and the Sixth Amendment right to legal
    counsel.

40. A Enumeration here means listing each right one by one. The Ninth
    Amendment says that even though a right may not be specifically
    listed in the Constitution, it remains with the people.


Evaluation Chart
Circle the number of each question that you missed. To the right of the
numbers below, you will find the titles of the chapters that cover the skills
you need to solve the problems. More question numbers circled in any row
                                                                     ®
means more attention is needed to sharpen those skills for the GED Test.
If you find you need instruction before you are ready to practice with this
workbook, we offer several excellent options:
                                                   ®
McGraw-Hill Education Preparation for the GED Test: This book
contains a complete test preparation program with intensive review and
practice for the topics tested on the GED®.
                                   ®
McGraw-Hill Education Pre-GED : This book is a beginner’s guide for
students who need to develop a solid foundation or refresh basic skills
                                                            ®
before they embark on formal preparation for the GED test.
                                                    ®
McGraw-Hill Education Short Course for the GED : This book provides a
                                                        ®
concise review of all the essential topics on the GED , with numerous
additional practice questions.
                         CHAPTER 1
             Civics and Government
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 171.

Questions 1–2 are based on the following quotation:

“All men are naturally in . . . a state of perfect freedom to order their
actions, and dispose of their possessions and persons, as they think fit,
within the bounds of the law of nature, without asking leave [of], or
depending upon the will of any other man.”

                             —John Locke, Second Treatise on Government


 1. Which principle that contributed to American constitutional
    democracy does this quotation represent?
    A. natural rights philosophy
    B. consent of the governed
    C. majority rule
    D. separation of powers

 2. Which of the following phrases from the U.S. Declaration of
    Independence reflects Locke’s thinking in this quotation?
    A. “Whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these
       ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it.”
    B. “We, therefore . . . declare, That these United Colonies are, and of
       Right ought to be Free and Independent States.”
   C. “All men . . . are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
      Rights.”
   D. “The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of
      repeated injuries and usurpations.”

Questions 3–4 are based on the following diagram:




 3. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)
4. What was the purpose of the delegates at the Constitutional
   Convention in creating the system of checks and balances?
  A. to ensure popular sovereignty
  B. to limit government power
  C. to promote the federal system
  D. to guarantee majority rule

5. What is the form of government of the United States and each of the
   fifty states?
  A. representative democracy
  B. direct democracy
  C. parliamentary democracy
  D. presidential democracy

6. Which of the following is a modern example of direct democracy?
  A. Athenian democracy
  B. state legislatures
  C. school boards
  D. New England town meetings
Questions 7–9 are based on the following chart:




 7. Which statement best explains why both the state and federal
    governments have the power to tax?
    A. Politicians generally favor high taxes.
    B. Governments must have revenue to be able to act.
    C. The American system is built on double taxation.
    D. Taxation without representation is tyranny.

 8. A trade agreement with Canada would fall under federal authority on
    the basis of which power?
    A. regulating commerce between states
    B. creating and running the postal system
    C. granting charters to banks
    D. managing relations with other countries

 9. Which principle of the U.S. Constitution is demonstrated by the
    division of powers between the state and federal governments shown in
    the chart?
    A. federalism
    B. separation of powers
    C. check and balances
    D. popular sovereignty

10. Under the U.S. Constitution, what is the chief responsibility assigned
    to the vice president of the United States?
    A. attend official meetings on behalf of the president
    B. preside over Senate sessions
    C. cast tie-breaking votes in the House
    D. advise the president

Question 11 is based on the following passage:
The United States can be characterized as a Presidential Democracy and
Great Britain can be characterized as a Parliamentary Democracy. While
both the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great
Britain head the executive branch of their respective governments, there
are some significant differences between them. The British prime minister
is elected by voters from one parliamentary district, then chosen by
members of Parliament. The U.S. president is elected by all of a country’s
voters via the electoral college system. The British prime minister serves a
maximum term of five years before new elections must be held, but there
is no limit on the number of terms that may be served. In contrast, the U.S.
president serves a maximum of two four-year terms.
    The leaders also differ in terms of the powers they exert over other
parts of the government. The U.S. president appoints members of the
cabinet, with Senate approval, and can fire people without approval. The
British prime minister appoints and fires members of cabinet, although the
monarch must approve those decisions. The U.S. president cannot disband
Congress and force new elections, but the British prime minister can
disband Parliament and force new elections. The U.S. president also has
the power to veto bills, while the British prime minister does not have the
power to veto bills.

11. What is a major difference between the British prime minister and the
    U.S. president?
    A. The prime minister, not the president, has the power to disband the
       legislature and force new elections.
    B. The prime minister, not the president, has the power to veto bills.
    C. The president, not the prime minister, has no term limits.
    D. The president, not the prime minister, is also a member of the
       legislature.

12. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)




13. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    The president is elected by a majority of .
14. Which official serves for life, unless removed from office by
    impeachment?
    A. member of the U.S. House
    B. president
    C. Supreme Court justice
    D. U.S. senator

Questions 15–16 are based on the following quotation:

“A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State,
the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.”

                   —U.S. Constitution, Second Amendment (ratified 1781)

15. This amendment is at the heart of what contemporary public policy
    issue?
    A. government intelligence gathering on U.S. citizens
    B. civilian control of the military
    C. gun control
    D. limits on immigration

16. Many opponents of any laws to place limits on gun ownership base
    their opposition on this amendment. Which of the following is the best
    legal argument to counter that position?
    A. “The people who wrote the Bill of Rights could not imagine how
       murderous modern weapons could be.”
    B. “The right to own guns was important when the country had no
       standing army and a militia was needed for defense.”
    C. “The United States has more handgun deaths than any other
       industrialized country in the world.”
    D. “The presence of handguns in a home raises the risk that a child
       will take the weapon, leading to a tragic accident.”

17. The separation of church and state, established by the First
    Amendment, is used by judges to prohibit which of the following
    actions?
    A. abortion
    B. stem-cell research
    C. gay marriage
    D. prayer in public school

18. In 1992, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled (in R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul)
    that a Minnesota law that made it illegal to burn a cross for the
    purpose of arousing anger or resentment against an individual or group
    on the basis of that individual’s or group’s race, color, religion, or
    gender would be overturned. What was most likely the rationale for the
    Court’s decision to overturn this law?
    A. The law violated the First Amendment right of free speech.
    B. The law violated the Fifth Amendment protection of due process.
    C. The law violated the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual
       punishment.
    D. The law violated the Fourteenth Amendment ban on equal
       protection under the law.

19. Which of the following individuals would be most likely to favor limits
    on free speech?
    A. an artist whose work challenges traditional religion
    B. a comedian who writes satires about government officials
    C. a researcher who thinks that pornography is linked to violence
       against children
    D. an antiabortion activist who pickets abortion clinics

Questions 20–23 are based on the following graphs:




20. Which period saw the most presidential vetoes?
    A. 1869–1889
    B. 1889–1909
    C. 1929–1949
    D. 1969–1989

21. Which generalization can reasonably be made based on the data in the
    graph of presidential vetoes?
    A. Vetoes were rare until the second half of the nineteenth century.
    B. Vetoes have steadily increased over time.
    C. Vetoes were more frequent in the early years of the United States.
    D. Presidents veto only a fraction of the bills passed by Congress.

22. Which generalization can reasonably be made based on the data in
    both graphs?
    A. Veto overrides have been more common since the mid-1900s.
    B. Overridden vetoes are high when the president and the majority in
       Congress are from different parties.
    C. Congress succeeds in overriding presidential vetoes relatively
       infrequently.
    D. The failure of Congress to override vetoes shows that presidents
       have too much power.

23. Which statement best explains why the data about presidential vetoes
    and overridden vetoes are shown on two graphs?
    A. The two subjects are unrelated.
    B. The magnitude of the data is widely different.
    C. The two sets of years would not fit on one graph.
    D. The two graphs show different kinds of data (numbers and
       percentages).

Questions 24–27 are based on the following passage:

The Bill of Rights is the first ten Amendments to the Constitution. It spells
out Americans’ rights in relation to their government. It guarantees civil
rights and liberties to the individual—like freedom of speech, press, and
religion. It sets rules for due process of law and reserves all powers not
delegated to the Federal Government to the people or the States. And it
specifies that “the enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall
not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
    The First Amendment provides several rights protections: to express
ideas through speech and the press, to assemble or gather with a group to
protest or for other reasons, and to ask the government to fix problems. It
also protects the right to religious beliefs and practices. It prevents the
government from creating or favoring a religion.
   The Second Amendment protects the right to keep and bear arms.
    The Third Amendment prevents government from forcing homeowners
to allow soldiers to use their homes. Before the Revolutionary War, laws
gave British soldiers the right to take over private homes.
   The Fourth Amendment bars the government from unreasonable search
and seizure of an individual or their private property.
    The Fifth Amendment provides several protections for people accused
of crimes. It states that serious criminal charges must be started by a grand
jury. A person cannot be tried twice for the same offense (double jeopardy)
or have property taken away without just compensation. People have the
right against self-incrimination and cannot be imprisoned without due
process of law (fair procedures and trials).
   The Sixth Amendment provides additional protections to people
accused of crimes, such as the right to a speedy and public trial, trial by an
impartial jury in criminal cases, and to be informed of criminal charges.
Witnesses must face the accused, and the accused is allowed his or her
own witnesses and to be represented by a lawyer.
    The Seventh Amendment extends the right to a jury trial in Federal
civil cases.
   The Eighth Amendment bars excessive bail and fines and cruel and
unusual punishment.
    The Ninth Amendment states that listing specific rights in the
Constitution does not mean that people do not have other rights that have
not been spelled out.
    The Tenth Amendment says that the Federal Government only has
those powers delegated in the Constitution. If it isn’t listed, it belongs to
the states or to the people.
                                        Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
     [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/bill-of-rights/what-
                                                                  does-it-
 say#:~:text=The%20Bill%20of%20Rights%20is,speech%2C%20press%2
                                                 C%20and%20religion.]

24. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)
25. Based on the description in the passage, which amendment contains
    the following text?

“. . . no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath
or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and
the persons or things to be seized . . .”

                                                         —U.S. Constitution

    A. Fourth
    B. Fifth
    C. Sixth
    D. Ninth

26. In 1962, in Gideon v. Wainwright, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
    the constitutional right to be represented by a lawyer extended to trials
    in state court. On which amendment would the Court base that right?
    A. First
    B. Fourth
    C. Fifth
    D. Sixth

27. In 2014, in Riley v. California, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled
    unanimously that police could not conduct searches of the contents of
    an individual’s cell phone without a warrant. That ruling was based on
    the rights protected under which amendment?
    A. Third
    B. Fourth
    C. Fifth
    D. Seventh

Questions 28–31 are based on the following texts:

“All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State
wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws.”

                               —U.S. Constitution, Fourteenth Amendment

“The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.”

                                 —U.S. Constitution, Fifteenth Amendment

“The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.”

                               —U.S. Constitution, Nineteenth Amendment
“The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any primary or other
election for President or Vice President, for electors for President or Vice
President, or for Senator or Representative in Congress, shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of failure to
pay any poll tax or other tax.”

                           —U.S. Constitution, Twenty-Fourth Amendment

“The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of age
or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by
any State on account of age.”

                            —U.S. Constitution, Twenty-Sixth Amendment

28. Amendments to the U.S. Constitution are numbered in chronological
    order. Based on this information, which statement is true?
    A. Eighteen-year-olds got the right to vote before African American
       men.
    B. Women received the right to vote last of all the groups covered in
       these amendments.
    C. African American men were declared citizens before they were
       guaranteed the right to vote.
    D. Outlawing of poll taxes gave women the right to vote.

29. During the Vietnam War in the 1960s and early 1970s, many
    Americans protested the fact that young men were drafted into the
    army to serve in the war but did not have the right to vote for the
    leaders making the decisions about that war. Which amendment was
    written and ratified in response to those protests?
    A. Fifteenth
    B. Nineteenth
    C. Twenty-Fourth
    D. Twenty-Sixth
30. The poll tax had been enacted in some southern states to suppress
    voting by poor African Americans. Which statement best explains why
    the Twenty-Fourth Amendment banned the imposition of this tax in
    elections for president, vice president, and the U.S. Congress only?
    A. These are the most important elections.
    B. State and local election rules are set by the states.
    C. Congress has no interest in state and local elections.
    D. The poll tax was used only in these elections.

31. Which of these voting rights amendments affected the largest share of
    Americans?
    A. Fifteenth
    B. Nineteenth
    C. Twenty-Fourth
    D. Twenty-Sixth

32. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)




    The                       presides over meetings of the House of
      Representatives.

33. The power of the U.S. Congress to impeach the president, vice
    president, and federal justices for “high crimes and misdemeanors” is
    an example of what constitutional principle?
    A. federalism
    B. popular sovereignty
    C. majority rule
    D. rule of law

34. Which of these actions by Congress requires a “supermajority”—
    approval by two-thirds of all members voting rather than a simple
    majority of half plus one?
    A. passage of a bill
    B. approval of a cabinet appointment
    C. override of a veto
    D. ratification of a treaty

35. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    Cabinet departments such as the Department of Defense and
      Department




    of Justice belong to the                              branch.

36. Which cabinet department includes the Bureau of Land Management,
    the National Park Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service?
    A. Agriculture
    B. Commerce
    C. Interior
    D. State

Questions 37–38 are based on the following quotation:

“We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings
of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this
Constitution for the United States of America.”

                                             —U.S. Constitution, Preamble

37. Which constitutional principle is represented in the statement that “We
    the People . . . ordain and establish” the Constitution?
    A. separation of powers
    B. federalism
    C. popular sovereignty
    D. republicanism

38. What is the purpose of the Preamble to the Constitution?
    A. to place strict limits on government power
    B. to state the goals the Constitution is meant to achieve
    C. to clarify the relationship of state and federal power
    D. to state the equality of all Americans

Questions 39–40 are based on the following diagram:
39. Which actions are absolutely essential for a bill to become a law?
    A. approval by committees in both houses and signature by the
       president
    B. approval by both houses and signature by the president or a vote to
       override a veto
    C. signature by the president
    D. approval by a conference committee and signature by the president

40. Under what circumstances does a bill go to a conference committee?
    A. If the House and Senate approve different versions of the bill.
    B. If the bill is introduced in both houses.
    C. If the president vetoes the bill.
    D. If both houses vote the bill down.

41. What determines the number of electoral votes a state has?
    A. the number of eligible voters who cast ballots
    B. the number of members in the House and Senate
    C. the number of counties in the state
    D. the number of members in the state legislature

42. In which elections do voters go to the polls to choose candidates for
    office?
    A. caucus
    B. general
    C. primary
    D. special

Questions 43–44 are based on the following passage:
The Constitution of the United States contains a preamble and seven
articles that describe the way the government is structured and how it
operates. The first three articles establish the three branches of
government and their powers: Legislative (Congress), Executive (office of
the President), and Judicial (Federal court system). A system of checks
and balances prevents any one of these separate powers from becoming
dominant. Articles four through seven describe the relationship of the
states to the Federal Government, establish the Constitution as the
supreme law of the land, and define the amendment and ratification
processes.
    Article I assigns the responsibility for making laws to the Legislative
Branch (Congress). Congress is divided into two parts, or “Houses,” the
House of Representatives and the Senate. The bicameral Congress was a
compromise between the large states, which wanted representation based
on population, and the small ones, which wanted the states to have equal
representation.
    Article II details the Executive Branch and the offices of the President
and Vice President. It lays down rules for electing the President (through
the Electoral College), eligibility (must be a natural-born citizen at least
35 years old), and term length. The 12th and 25th Amendments modified
some of these rules.
    Article III establishes the Judicial Branch with the U.S. Supreme Court
as the federal court system’s highest court. It specifies that Federal judges
be appointed for life unless they commit a serious crime. This article is
shorter than Articles I and II. The Federal Convention left much of the
work of planning the court system to the First Congress. The 1789
Judiciary Act created the three-tiered court system in place today.
    Article IV outlines states’ powers in relationship to each other. States
have the authority to create and enforce their own laws but must respect
and help enforce the laws of other states. Congress may pass Federal laws
regarding how states honor other states’ laws and records.
    Article V explains the amendment process, which is different and more
difficult than the process for making laws. When two-thirds of the Senate
and two-thirds of the House of Representatives vote to change the
Constitution, an amendment goes to the state legislatures for a vote.
Alternatively, two-thirds of the state legislatures can submit an application
to Congress, and then Congress calls a national convention at which states
propose amendments. Three-fourths of the state legislatures or state
conventions must vote in favor of an amendment to ratify it.
    Article VI states that Federal law is supreme, or higher than, state and
local laws. This means that if a state law conflicts with a Federal law,
Federal law takes precedence.
    Article VII describes the ratification process for the Constitution. It
called for special state ratifying conventions. Nine states were required to
enact the Constitution. Rhode Island became the 13th state to ratify the
Constitution in 1790.
                                       Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
 [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/constitution/what-does-
                                                                  it-say]

43. Which article of the Constitution authorizes Congress to create federal
    courts?
    A. Article II
    B. Article III
    C. Article IV
    D. Article V

44. In which article would you find the following quotation?

“This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made
in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land;
and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the
Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.”
    A. Article IV
    B. Article V
    C. Article VI
    D. Article VII

45. What is one way that interest groups differ from political parties?
    A. Interest groups do not have candidates that run for office.
    B. Interest groups do not influence legislation.
    C. Interest groups do not spend money on political campaigns.
    D. Interest groups focus on specific goals.

46. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)




    On the state level, the office of                             is
       comparable to
    the office of president on the national level.

47. Which of the following correctly identifies the interest group and a
    major issue with which it is involved?
    A. Children’s Defense Fund—juvenile justice
    B. Sierra Club—the environment
    C. AARP—health care
    D. Chamber of Commerce—the stock market
Questions 48–50 are based on the following passage from The Federalist
Papers:

“From this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure democracy,
by which I mean a society consisting of a small number of citizens, who
assemble and administer the government in person, can admit of no cure
for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or interest will, in almost
every case, be felt by a majority of the whole; . . . and there is nothing to
check the inducements to sacrifice the weaker party or an obnoxious
individual. Hence it is that such democracies have ever been spectacles of
turbulence and contention; have ever been found incompatible with
personal security or the rights of property; and have in general been as
short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths. . . .

A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of
representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises the
cure for which we are seeking. . . .

The two great points of difference between a democracy and a republic
are: first, the delegation of the government, in the latter, to a small number
of citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater number of citizens,
and greater sphere of country, over which the latter may be extended.”

                                  —James Madison, The Federalist, No. 10

48. What defines a republican form of government, according to Madison?
    A. government by consent of the governed
    B. decisions made by elected representatives
    C. decisions made by all citizens as a body
    D. policies favoring low taxes and economic growth

49. What is a disadvantage that “pure democracy” has compared to
    republican government, according to Madison?
    A. short duration
    B. large extent
    C. lack of competing factions
    D. domination by people of property

50. Why are minority rights at risk in a pure democracy, according to
    Madison?
    A. Pure democracies are likely to include slavery.
    B. Pure democracies can be easily misled by a tyrannical ruler.
    C. Strong majorities are likely to form and impose their will.
    D. These democracies can only form in societies with shared interests.

Question 51 is based on the following passage from the U.S. Constitution,
which defines one of the powers granted to the U.S. Congress:

“[Congress shall have the power] to make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.”

                                     —U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8

51. Why is this “necessary and proper” clause of the U.S. Constitution
    sometimes called “the elastic clause”?
    A. Congress can stretch it to abuse its power.
    B. The federal government stretches this power to usurp state power.
    C. The president stretches this power in issuing executive orders.
    D. Congress can use the clause to stretch its powers.

52. The Equal Opportunity Employment Commission, which works to
    prevent and punish discrimination in employment decisions, is an
    example of federal government efforts to achieve what goal?
    A. promote economic growth
    B. protect minority rights
    C. ensure separation of powers
    D. achieve full employment

53. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)




    The U.S. Supreme Court has                        justices, including the
      Chief Justice.

54. The following sentence contains blanks marked                        .
    Beneath each one is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
    and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
    will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
    will appear in the blank.)
    In the event of the president’s death or removal from office,




    the                                  becomes president. If that
          individual should
    die in office, the next in line for the presidency is the




55. What is the purpose of a political party’s national convention, held
    every four years?
    A. to nominate candidates for president and vice president
    B. to choose candidates for all the nation’s governor seats
    C. to determine the platform for the following year’s election
    D. to choose candidates for seats in the U.S. Congress

56. How many seats in the U.S. Senate are up for election every two years?
    A. one-fifth
    B. one-third
    C. one-half
    D. every seat

Questions 57–60 are based on the following maps, each of which lists the
winner of the election on top in the lower right-hand corner:
57. In which election did a third-party candidate have the most success?
    A. 1988
    B. 1992
    C. 1996
    D. 2000

58. In which election did the winner of the electoral vote not win a
    majority of the popular vote?
    A. 1988
    B. 1992
    C. 1996
    D. 2000

59. Which states were solidly Democratic in these four elections?
    A. California, Massachusetts, and Michigan
    B. Illinois, Iowa, and New York
    C. Minnesota, Nevada, and New Mexico
    D. Oregon, Washington, and Wisconsin
60. Which combination of states was solidly Republican in these four
    elections?
    A. Great Lakes states
    B. mid-Atlantic states
    C. New England states
    D. Texas and the Dakotas

Questions 61–62 are based on the following passage:

The authority to amend the Constitution of the United States is derived
from Article V of the Constitution. The Constitution provides that an
amendment may be proposed either by the Congress with a two-thirds
majority vote in both the House of Representatives and the Senate or by a
constitutional convention called for by two-thirds of the State legislatures.
None of the 27 amendments to the Constitution have been proposed by
constitutional convention. The Congress proposes an amendment in the
form of a joint resolution. Since the President does not have a
constitutional role in the amendment process, the joint resolution does not
go to the White House for signature or approval.
    A proposed amendment becomes part of the Constitution as soon as it
is ratified by three-fourths of the States (38 of 50 States), either by
approval by majority votes in both houses of three-quarters of the state
legislatures or by approval by a majority vote in state conventions in
three-quarters of all states. Since none of the 27 amendments to the
Constitution have been proposed by constitutional convention, none have
been approved by this second method.
                                       Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
           [Source: https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/constitution]

61. Which step has been followed in the case of every amendment that has
    been proposed for consideration to date?
    A. approval by special convention called by two-thirds of states
    B. approval by three-quarters of state legislatures
    C. approval by two-thirds majorities in both House and Senate
    D. approval by the president

62. Which statement is the best explanation of why the Founders who
    wrote the Constitution made the amendment process a two-step
    process and required supermajorities to approve each step?
    A. to make amending the Constitution difficult
    B. to make amending the Constitution impossible
    C. to keep the president from being involved in the process
    D. to ensure that citizens voted directly on all proposed amendments

Questions 63–65 are based on the following chart:




63. Which country has a form of government most similar to that of the
    United States?
    A. Canada
    B. Germany
    C. Mexico
    D. Russia
64. Which country has the government in which one individual wields the
    most power?
    A. China
    B. Netherlands
    C. Russia
    D. Saudi Arabia

65. Which is the best explanation of what is meant by calling Iran a
    “theocratic state”?
    A. It is a dictatorship.
    B. Laws must conform to religious law.
    C. Laws must conform to constitutional theory.
    D. All officials must take an oath of office.

66. The census that is taken every ten years is used to determine what
    aspect of the federal government?
   A. the number of counties in each state
   B. the number of senators each state has
   C. the number of members each state has in the U.S. House
   D. the amount of federal revenue sharing each state receives
Questions 67–68 are based on the following passage from The Federalist
Papers:

“The other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens and extent
of territory which may be brought within the compass of republican than
of democratic government; and it is this circumstance principally which
renders factious combinations less to be dreaded in the former than in the
latter. The smaller the society, the fewer probably will be the distinct
parties and interests composing it; the fewer the distinct parties and
interests, the more frequently will a majority be found of the same party;
and the smaller the number of individuals composing a majority, and the
smaller the compass within which they are placed, the more easily will
they concert and execute their plans of oppression. Extend the sphere, and
you take in a greater variety of parties and interests; you make it less
probable that a majority of the whole will have a common motive to
invade the rights of other citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it
will be more difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength, and
to act in unison with each other.”

                                  —James Madison, The Federalist, No. 10

67. What does Madison say is the chief defense that a republican form of
    government provides against domination by a majority over the
    minority?
    A. large size, which leads to the formation of many competing
       factions
    B. greater likelihood of choosing wise and virtuous leaders
    C. greater likelihood that citizens will agree on common goals
    D. inability of factions or interest groups to form

68. Based on this passage, what does Madison mean by “factious
    combinations”?
    A. small groups interested in destroying the state
    B. political parties of any kind
    C. groups of people with shared interests and goals
    D. groups of representatives who work together

69. The following sentence contains blanks marked                        .
    Beneath each one is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
    and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
    will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
    will appear in the blank.)
    The U.S. House of Representatives has                       members,
      based on




    each state’s population, and the U.S. Senate has
       members,
    with an equal number from each state.

Questions 70–72 are based on the following quotation, taken from a U.S.
Supreme Court decision in the case United States v. Nixon, in which
President Richard Nixon claimed “executive privilege” should prevent
him from turning over transcripts of conversations with aides, which had
been requested in a criminal prosecution of one of his aides.

“In this case, we must weigh the importance of the general privilege of
confidentiality of Presidential communications in performance of the
President’s responsibilities against the inroads of such a privilege on the
fair administration of criminal justice. The interest in preserving
confidentiality is weighty indeed, and entitled to great respect. . . .

On the other hand, the allowance of the privilege to withhold evidence that
is demonstrably relevant in a criminal trial would cut deeply into the
guarantee of due process of law and gravely impair the basic function of
the court. A President’s acknowledged need for confidentiality in the
communications of his office is general in nature, whereas the
constitutional need for production of relevant evidence in a criminal
proceeding is specific and central to the fair adjudication of a particular
criminal case. . . .
We conclude that, when the ground for asserting privilege as to
subpoenaed materials sought for use in a criminal trial is based only on the
generalized interest in confidentiality, it cannot prevail over the
fundamental demands of due process of law in the fair administration of
criminal justice. The generalized assertion of privilege must yield to the
demonstrated, specific need for evidence in a pending criminal trial.”

             —Chief Justice Warren Burger, United States v. Nixon (1974)

70. What position did the Court take regarding a president’s right to claim
    “executive privilege” in general?
    A. There is no justification for the claim.
    B. The Constitution protects all executive conversations.
    C. The claim can be a valid one.
    D. Only top-secret conversations can be protected.

71. What constitutional issue did the Court’s decision say conflicted with
    the claim of executive privilege?
    A. separation of powers
    B. due process
    C. free speech
    D. limited government

72. Based on the wording of this decision, what is reasonable to conclude
    that the Court ordered?
    A. The president had to turn over the transcripts.
    B. The president did not have to turn over the transcripts.
    C. The Court had no jurisdiction in the case.
    D. Further arguments were needed to decide the case.

Questions 73–75 are based on the following quotation from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation website:
“The FBI focuses on threats that challenge the foundations of American
society or involve dangers too large or complex for any local or state
authority to handle alone. In executing the following priorities, the FBI—
as both a national security and law enforcement organization—will
produce and use intelligence to protect the nation from threats and to bring
to justice those who violate the law.

    1. Protect the United States from terrorist attack
    2. Protect the United States against foreign intelligence operations and
       espionage
    3. Protect the United States against cyber-based attacks and high-
       technology crimes
    4. Combat public corruption at all levels
    5. Protect civil rights
    6. Combat transnational/national criminal organizations and
       enterprises
    7. Combat major white-collar crime
    8. Combat significant violent crime
    9. Support federal, state, local and international partners
    10. Upgrade technology to successfully perform the FBI’s mission”

                         —Federal Bureau of Investigation, “Quick Facts”

73. What is the FBI’s main mission?
    A. fighting local crime
    B. investigating government corruption
    C. ensuring civil rights are protected
    D. protecting the country and its people

74. Which mission would involve investigating a case of discrimination
    against members of a minority group?
    A. investigating white-collar crime
    B. combating violent crime
    C. protecting civil rights
    D. combating criminal organizations

75. Which mission would involve an investigation into a group of hackers
    breaking into a bank’s computerized records?
    A. combating criminal organizations
    B. protecting against cyber-based attacks
    C. combating political corruption
    D. investigating white-collar crime

Questions 76–77 are based on the following diagram, which identifies the
characteristics of a state, sometimes called a nation or country:
76. Which characteristic of a national state does each of the fifty states
    within the United States lack?
    A. government
    B. population
    C. sovereignty
    D. territory

77. Aristotle, in his book The Politics, wrote that “the polity [or state] is a
    species of association” and that “if we go no further, its members must
    live in a common locality.” To which of the characteristics of a state
    does this statement apply?
    A. government
    B. population
    C. sovereignty
    D. territory

78. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    Before they can vote, people who are eligible to




    vote must

Questions 79–80 are based on the following quotation:

“It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say
what the law is. Those who apply the rule to particular cases, must of
necessity expound and interpret that rule. If two laws conflict with each
other, the courts must decide on the operation of each. . . .

Thus, the particular phraseology of the constitution of the United States
confirms and strengthens the principle, supposed to be essential to all
written constitutions, that a law repugnant to the constitution is void; and
that courts, as well as other departments, are bound by that instrument.”

                —Chief Justice John Marshall, Marbury v. Madison (1803)

79. What does Chief Justice Marshall mean in saying that “a law
    repugnant to the constitution is void”?
    A. A federal law that contradicts state constitutions gives the federal
       government too much power.
    B. A law that runs counter to the U.S. Constitution is not valid and
       need not be followed.
    C. Citizens retain the right to break laws they consider invalid as a
       form of civil disobedience.
    D. All laws have to be reviewed against the Constitution to determine
       if they reflect powers granted in that document.

80. The Supreme Court’s decision in Marbury v. Madison established that
    the Supreme Court had the power to determine the constitutionality of
    acts of Congress. What is the term for that power?
    A. judicial activism
    B. judicial authority
    C. judicial responsibility
    D. judicial review

81. Which aspect of the U.S. Constitution contributes most to its being
    considered a living constitution?
    A. the separation of powers
    B. the federal system
    C. the amendment process
    D. the powers of the presidency

Questions 82–83 are based on the following passage:

There are four major types of Social Security benefits. The most common
is retirement benefits, which are paid to retired workers who contributed
to the Social Security system while they were working. To qualify for
these benefits, workers must meet age eligibility requirements. Another
type of Social Security benefit is disability, which is paid to workers who
cannot work for at least 12 months because of illness or injury. These
workers must meet eligibility requirements to qualify. Survivors’ benefits
are for widowed spouses, minor children, or dependent parents of
individuals who were receiving retirement or disability benefits. They too
must meet eligibility requirements. The final benefit type is called
Supplemental Security Income, which is for disabled adults and children
who have limited income. People must meet eligibility requirements to
receive these benefits as well.
                                    Source: Social Security Administration

82. Which type of benefit has age eligibility requirements?
    A. disability
    B. retirement
    C. Supplemental Security Income
    D. survivors

83. Which type of benefit would be received by the fully abled minor child
    of a deceased individual who had been retired?
    A. disability
    B. retirement
    C. Supplemental Security Income
    D. survivors

Questions 84–85 are based on the following diagram:
84. Which step in the naturalization process is optional for some
    individuals?
    A. the interview
    B. the application
    C. taking the Oath of Allegiance
    D. the English language test

85. Based on this diagram, for whom is the naturalization process
    intended?
    A. undocumented immigrants
    B. eligible immigrants who wish to become citizens
    C. immigrants who join the armed forces
    D. citizens who wish to register to vote

Questions 86–87 are based on the following diagram, which shows the
structure of the executive branch of the federal government:
86. The president’s chief of staff and press secretary are most likely found
    in which area of the organizational chart?
    A. boards and commissions
    B. cabinet departments
    C. independent agencies and government corporations
    D. White House staff

87. Which type of organization includes those with the greatest authority
    to act on their own?
    A. boards and commissions
    B. cabinet departments
    C. independent agencies and government corporations
    D. White House staff

Questions 88–89 are based on the following graph:




    Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the United
       States: Colonial Times to 1970.

88. What is unusual about the period from 1951 to 1961?
    A. Federal employment went down.
    B. Federal employment increased by the smallest amount.
    C. Federal employment reached an all-time high.
    D. Federal employment remained static.

89. What inference can reasonably be made from the data in this graph?
    A. State and local governments were also increasing over this period.
    B. Growth of federal employment is due to growth in the armed
       forces.
    C. The federal government was providing more services over this
       period.
    D. Growth of the federal government after 1931 prompted the creation
       of the federal income tax.

Question 90 is based on the following excerpt from the Declaration of
Independence.

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.—That to
secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their
just powers from the consent of the governed, —That whenever any form
of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the
people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its
foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as
to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.”

90. Which of the following ideas from the Magna Carta most likely
    influenced the ideas in this excerpt?
    A. the right to due process and trial by jury
    B. limitation on the taxation of citizens
    C. freedom of religion
    D. everyone being subject to the law

Question 91 is based on the following excerpt.

        Excerpt from Jefferson’s Draft for a Bill
        Establishing Religious Freedom (1777)
“We, the General Assembly of Virginia, do enact that no man shall be
compelled to frequent or support any religious worship, place, or ministry
whatsoever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or burdened in his
body or goods, nor shall otherwise suffer, on account of his religious
opinions or belief; but that all men shall be free to profess, and by
argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the
same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities.”

The following sentence contains a blank marked                       .
   Beneath the blank is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
   and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
   will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
   will appear in the blank.)

91. The                     amendment to the U.S. Constitution expresses
    these same ideas.




Question 92 is based on the following chart.
    Source: https://www.usa.gov/branches-of-government.

92. Which of the following is a part of the executive branch?
    A. the Congressional Budget Office
    B. the U.S. Department of Energy
    C. the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
    D. the House Office of Inspector General

Question 93 is based on the following two excerpts.

         Excerpt from Plessy v. Ferguson (1896)
“The object of the [fourteenth] amendment was undoubtedly to enforce the
absolute equality of the two races before the law, but, in the nature of
things, it could not have been intended to abolish distinctions based upon
color, or to enforce social, as distinguished from political, equality, or a
commingling of the two races upon terms unsatisfactory to either. Laws
permitting, and even requiring, their separation, in places where they are
liable to be brought into contact, do not necessarily imply the inferiority
of either race to the other, and have been generally, if not universally,
recognized as within the competency of the state legislatures in the
exercise of their police power.”

    Excerpt from Brown v. Board of Education of
                  Topeka (1954)
“We come then to the question presented: does segregation of children in
public schools solely on the basis of race, even though the physical
facilities and other ‘tangible’ factors may be equal, deprive the children of
the minority group of equal educational opportunities? We believe that it
does . . . We conclude that, in the field of public education, the doctrine of
‘separate but equal’ has no place. Separate educational facilities are
inherently unequal. Therefore, we hold that the plaintiffs and others
similarly situated for whom the actions have been brought are, by reason
of the segregation complained of, deprived of the equal protection of the
laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.”

93. On which of the following matters did the two decisions differ?
    A. whether states have the right to make laws
    B. the definition of the word equal
    C. whether whites and blacks are inherently equal
    D. the validity of the Fourteenth Amendment

Question 94 is based on the following quote from the United States Oath of
Allegiance.

“I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that I will support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United
States of America against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform
noncombatant service in the Armed Forces of the United States when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian direction when required by the law; and that I take this obligation
freely without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; so help me
God.”

94. Which of the following promises does a person make when becoming a
    US citizen? Place an X on the blank next to each of your choices.
    (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on the blank to put an X
    on it.
    _______to support the laws of the United States
    _______to vote in presidential elections
    _______to serve in the armed forces if called upon
    _______to renounce allegiance to any foreign country

Question 95 is based on the following mission statement from the National
Institutes of Health.

“NIH’s mission is to seek fundamental knowledge about the nature and
behavior of living systems and the application of that knowledge to
enhance health, lengthen life, and reduce illness and disability.”

95. Which of the following would be most consistent with the mission of
    the National Institutes of Health?
    A. researching the biological effects of environmental contaminants
    B. providing funding for research on capital punishment
    C. cleaning up contaminated land
    D. protecting and managing natural resources

Question 96 is based on the following information on how legislation is
introduced.
“Beginning of a Bill: An idea for a bill may come from anybody, however
only Members of Congress can introduce a bill in Congress. Bills can be
introduced at any time the House is in session. There are four basic types
of legislation: bills; joint resolutions; concurrent resolutions; and simple
resolutions. A bill’s type must be determined. A private bill affects a
specific person or organization rather than the population at large. A
public bill is one that affects the general public.

“Proposal of a Bill: After the idea for a bill is developed and the text of the
bill is written, a Member of Congress must officially introduce the bill in
Congress by becoming the bill’s sponsor. Representatives usually sponsor
bills that are important to them and their constituents. Representatives
who sponsor bills will try to gain support for them, in hopes that they will
become laws. Two or more sponsors for the same bill are called co-
sponsors.”

Source: https://lucas.house.gov/legislative-work/how-bill-becomes-law.

96. Place the following steps in the correct order. Indicate the box where
    each step belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each
    step and “drag” it into the correct box.)
    •   a member of Congress sponsors the bill
    •   the text of the bill is written
    •   representatives work to gain support for the bill
    •   someone has an idea for a bill
    •   the bill’s type is determined
Question 97 is based on the following organizational chart from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
    Source: https://www.justice.gov/jmd/organization-mission-and-
       functions-manual-federal-bureau-investigation.

97. Which of the following is not under the supervision of the Associate
    Deputy Director?
    A. the Office of Partner Engagement
    B. the Resource Planning Office
    C. the Security Division
    D. the Human Resources Division

Question 98 is based on the following New York voter registration card.
    Source: http://assembly.state.ny.us/comm/ELaw/20040210/form.html.

98. Which of the following people is not eligible to vote in New York?
    A. a 19-year-old student
    B. a person who is a naturalized U.S. citizen
    C. a person who resides in New Jersey but works in New York
    D. a person who holds public office in New York

Question 99 is based on the following information about jury eligibility.

To be legally qualified for jury service, an individual must:

    • be a United States citizen;
    • be at least 18 years of age;
    • reside primarily in the judicial district for one year;
    • be adequately proficient in English to satisfactorily complete the
       juror qualification form;
    • have no disqualifying mental or physical condition;
    • not currently be subject to felony charges punishable by
      imprisonment for more than one year; and
    • never have been convicted of a felony (unless civil rights have been
      legally restored)

There are three groups that are exempt from federal jury service:

    • members of the armed forces on active duty;
    • members of professional fire and police departments; and
    • “public officers” of federal, state, or local governments who are
      actively engaged full-time in the performance of public duties.

Persons employed on a full-time basis in any of these categories are barred
from serving on federal juries, even if they desire to do so.

[Source: http://www.uscourts.gov/services-forms/jury-service/juror-
qualifications.]

99. Which of the following people are not allowed to serve on a federal
    jury?
    A. a person who was previously convicted of a misdemeanor crime
    B. a person who works as a volunteer firefighter
    C. a retired U.S. Navy officer
    D. a person who works as a full-time police department dispatcher

100. Which of the following types of government would be most likely to
   hold a free and fair election to choose a leader?
    A. theocracy
    B. democracy
    C. monarchy
    D. oligarchy
THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 1: CIVICS AND GOVERNMENT.
                         CHAPTER 2
                         U.S. History
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 174.

Questions 1–2 are based on the following quotation:

“We, whose names are underwritten, the Loyal Subjects of our dread
sovereign lord King James, by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France,
and Ireland, king, defender of the faith, [etcetera], having undertaken for
the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian faith, and the honor of
our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern
parts of Virginia; do. . . solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God and
one another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body
politic, for our better ordering and preservation, and furtherance of the
ends aforesaid: and by virtue hereof do enact, constitute, and frame, such
just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and officers, from time
to time, as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good
of the colony; unto which we promise all due submission and obedience.”

                                   —from The Mayflower Compact (1620)

 1. Which group of settlers wrote and signed this agreement in 1620?
    A. the English settlers of Jamestown, Virginia
    B. the Pilgrims who settled Plymouth, Massachusetts
    C. the Quakers who settled Pennsylvania
    D. the Catholics who settled Maryland

 2. Why is this document considered a founding document in American
    self-government?
  A. The signers pledge to one another that they will form a civil
     government and obey its laws.
  B. The signers received the right to govern themselves by a charter
     granted by King James.
  C. It is the first formal constitution written in what became the United
     States.
  D. It is the first document establishing a government that was put to a
     popular vote.

3. The delegates at the Constitutional Convention agreed on three
   important compromises to resolve differences over the new
   government that they were creating under the Constitution. Match each
   of the three compromises with the issue it resolved. Indicate the box
   where each compromise belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you
   will click on each compromise and “drag” it into the correct box.)




4. Indicate the box where each characteristic of the Articles of
   Confederation belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on
   each characteristic and “drag” it into the correct box.)
Questions 5–7 are based on the following map:




   Source: National Park Service.
 5. Which of the following describes the internment of Japanese
    Americans during World War II?
    A. relocation from the coasts to the interior of the country
    B. relocation moved from the Mountain West to the West Coast
    C. relocation from the West Coast to the interior West and Southwest
    D. relocation from the East Coast to the West and West Coast

 6. Which president issued Executive Order 9066, which led to the
    internment of Japanese Americans during World War II?
    A. Dwight D. Eisenhower
    B. Franklin D. Roosevelt
    C. Harry S Truman
    D. Woodrow Wilson

 7. The placement of Japanese Americans in internment camps was most
    similar to what other action targeting a specific racial or ethnic group?
    A. segregation of African Americans
    B. reservation policy regarding Native Americans
    C. Bracero program for Mexican immigrants
    D. quota system for Eastern European immigrants

Question 8 is based on the following print:
   Source: Library of Congress.

 8. This print shows the burning of Washington, D.C., by British troops,
    which took place during what conflict?
   A. American Revolution
   B. Civil War
   C. French and Indian War
   D. War of 1812

Questions 9–10 are based on the following graph:
    Source: U.S. Dept. of Justice.

 9. In which fiscal year did the FBI most likely have funding cuts? Write
    your answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

10. Which statement best explains the rise in employees dedicated to
    intelligence analysis in these years?
    A. top priority given to investigating organized crime
    B. sharp increase in illegal surveillance of Americans
    C. growing emphasis on fighting terrorism
    D. shift from field agents to analysts

Questions 11–13 are based on the following quotation:
“12. No scutage [a special tax] nor aid shall be imposed on our kingdom,
unless by common counsel of our kingdom, except for ransoming our
person, for making our eldest son a knight, and for once marrying our
eldest daughter; and for these there shall not be levied more than a
reasonable aid. . . .

14. And for obtaining the common counsel of the kingdom [regarding] the
assessing of an aid (except in the three cases aforesaid) or of a scutage, we
will cause to be summoned the archbishops, bishops, abbots, earls, and
greater barons, severally by our letters; and we will moreover cause to be
summoned generally, through our sheriffs and bailiffs, and others who
hold of us in chief, for a fixed date . . . and at a fixed place; and in all
letters of such summons we will specify the reason of the summons. . . .

20. A freeman shall not be [fined] for a slight offense, except in
accordance with the degree of the offense; and for a grave offense he shall
be [fined] in accordance with the gravity of the offense, . . . and none of
the aforesaid [fines] shall be imposed except by the oath of honest men of
the neighborhood.

39. No freemen shall be taken or imprisoned or [deprived of property] or
exiled or in any way destroyed, nor will we go upon him nor send upon
him, except by the lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land.”

                                            —from the Magna Carta (1215)


11. The following sentence contains blanks marked                       .
    Beneath each one is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
    and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
    will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
    will appear in the blank.)
The first two clauses quoted in this excerpt address issues of




                         .

The second two clauses address the issues of




12. What principle underlying American democracy does the Magna Carta
    represent, as shown in these passages?
    A. federalism
    B. minority rights
    C. representative government
    D. rule of law

13. Which statement is an appropriate paraphrase for the text of clause 20?
    A. There shall be no taxation without representation.
    B. All men are created equal.
    C. The punishment should fit the crime.
    D. All accused must be tried by a jury of their peers.

14. Place the documents in the correct order, from oldest to most recent.
    Indicate the box where each document belongs. (Note: On the real
    GED® test, you will click on each document name and “drag” it into
    the correct box.)
Questions 15–18 are based on the following chart:

Legal Immigrants Entering the United States, by Region, 1830—2009
15. Which region provided the greatest share of immigrants who were
    legal residents in the decades shown on this chart?
    A. Africa
    B. Americas
    C. Asia
    D. Europe

16. About how many immigrants came as legal residents from Europe in
    the decades from 1880 to 1919?
    A. about 10 million
    B. about 15 million
    C. about 20 million
    D. about 30 million

17. Immigration from China was growing in the 1800s until the passage of
    the Chinese Exclusion Act, which barred most Chinese from coming to
    the United States. Based on the chart, in which decade was that law
    likely passed?
    A. 1860–1869
    B. 1870–1879
    C. 1880–1889
    D. 1900–1909

18. In which decade can you reasonably infer that new immigration laws
    were passed as a reaction to several decades of high immigration from
    Eastern and Southern Europe?
    A. 1860–1869
    B. 1890–1899
    C. 1900–1909
    D. 1920–1929

19. Match the name of each major American war with its time span and the
    names of the opposing sides. Indicate the box where each item belongs.
    (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each item and “drag”
    it into the correct box.)




20. The Great Compromise, reached during the Constitutional Convention,
    resolved a sharp disagreement about representation in Congress
    between what two groups?
   A. large states and small states
   B. slave states and free states
   C. new states and original states
   D. federalist and anti-federalist states

Questions 21–23 are based on the following map:




21. Which communist state was not part of the Warsaw Pact?
   A. Czechoslovakia
   B. East Germany
   C. Romania
   D. Yugoslavia

22. What member of NATO does not appear on the map because it is not
    located in Europe?
    A. Australia
    B. Mexico
    C. New Zealand
    D. United States

23. What can you infer about the governments of the “nonaligned nations”
    such as Finland and Sweden?
    A. They were led by socialist parties.
    B. They did not have communist governments.
    C. They were constitutional monarchies.
    D. They had no standing armies.

Questions 24–25 are based on the following quotation:

“When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people
to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another,
and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal
station to which the laws of nature and of nature’s God entitle them, a
decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare
the causes which impel them to the separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that
among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. —That to secure
these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just
powers from the consent of the governed, —That whenever any form of
government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people
to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its
foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as
to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.”

                                     —Declaration of Independence (1776)

24. Which principle established by Enlightenment political thinkers does
    the Declaration of Independence use in this passage to justify rebellion
   against Great Britain?
    A. sovereignty of the people; natural rights
    B. equality of all people; religious toleration
    C. no taxation without representation; abolition of slavery
    D. republican government; equal justice

25. What is the purpose of the Declaration of Independence, according to
    the first paragraph in this excerpt?
    A. to complain about the king’s tyranny
    B. to demand representation in Parliament
    C. to justify the rebellion
    D. to demand an end to unfair taxation

Questions 26–28 are based on the following chart:

Alliance System Before World War I




26. Which member of the Triple Alliance could not be entirely counted on
    if war broke out?
    A. Austria-Hungary
    B. Germany
    C. Italy
    D. Russia

27. What two countries were most likely to be embroiled in war first if
    conflict broke out in Serbia?
    A. Austria-Hungary and Russia
    B. France and Germany
    C. Italy and Germany
    D. the Ottoman Empire and Great Britain

28. What danger was posed to peace in Europe by the alliance system that
    existed before World War I?
    A. France was geographically isolated and without strong allies.
    B. Germans were angry over the punishing peace from the previous
       war.
    C. A local war could quickly become a war involving the whole
       continent.
    D. Austria-Hungary was threatened by nationalist unrest.

29. Which of the following actions was a decisive factor in the American
    Revolution?
    A. the departure of tens of thousands of Loyalists
    B. the betrayal of Benedict Arnold
    C. the British capture of Philadelphia
    D. France’s agreement to ally with the Patriots

30. Match each of the Civil War Constitutional amendments with one of
    the results in the list. Indicate the box where each result belongs.
    (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each result and “drag”
    it into the correct box.)
Questions 31–32 are based on the following quotation:

“It is now time for the opposition to the annexation of Texas to cease, all
further agitation of the waters of bitterness and strife, at least in
connection with this question,—even though it may perhaps be required of
us as a necessary condition of the freedom of our institutions, that we must
live on forever in a state of unpausing struggle and excitement upon some
subject of party division or other. But, in regard to Texas, enough has now
been given to party. It is time for the common duty of patriotism to the
country to succeed;—or if this claim will not be recognized, it is at least
time for common sense to acquiesce with decent grace in the inevitable
and the irrevocable. . . .

Why, were other reasoning wanting, in favor of now elevating this
question of the reception of Texas into the Union, out of the lower region
of our past party dissensions, up to its proper level of a high and broad
nationality, it surely is to be found, found abundantly, in the manner in
which other nations have undertaken to intrude themselves into it, . . . in a
spirit of hostile interference against us, for the avowed object of thwarting
our policy and hampering our power, limiting our greatness and checking
the fulfillment of our manifest destiny to overspread the continent allotted
by Providence for the free development of our yearly multiplying
millions.”

     —John L. O’Sullivan, “Annexation,” The United States Magazine and
                                             Democratic Review (1845)

31. What can be inferred about the question of the annexation of Texas
    from this passage?
    A. The issue had split the country on partisan grounds.
    B. The issue had split the country on class grounds.
    C. The American people were almost unanimously in favor of
       annexation.
    D. Fear that annexation would result in a civil war was widespread.

32. What did O’Sullivan mean when he wrote of the “manifest destiny” of
    the United States?
    A. the inevitability that slavery would plunge North and South into a
        civil war
    B. the idea that the United States was uniquely destined to lead the
        world
    C. the certain victory of the United States over the Soviet Union in the
        Cold War
    D. the right of the United States to expand across the continent of
        North America

33. Which president resigned under threat of impeachment for his actions
    in the Watergate scandal?
    A. Bill Clinton
    B. Ulysses Grant
    C. Andrew Johnson
    D. Richard Nixon

34. Match each of the achievements in the list with one of the two early
    leaders of the United States. Indicate the box where each achievement
    belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each
    achievement and “drag” it into the correct box.)




Questions 35–36 are based on the following passage:

“In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress in the
most humble terms: Our repeated petitions have been answered only by
repeated injury. A prince whose character is thus marked by every act
which may define a tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.

Nor have we been wanting in attentions to our British brethren. We have
warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend
an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of the
circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have appealed to
their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by the
ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which, would
inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have
been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must, therefore,
acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our separation, and hold them,
as we hold the rest of mankind, enemies in war, in peace friends.”
                                     —Declaration of Independence (1776)

35. Which of the following is a paraphrase of these two paragraphs from
    the Declaration of Independence, which follow the list of grievances
    against the king and Parliament?
    A. As humans possessing basic natural rights, we have the right to
       form our own government.
    B. That government is best which governs least, so we want limited
       government.
    C. We tried to resolve our grievances peacefully, but received only
       harsh treatment in response.
    D. We will never be reconciled with the British people after their
       unjust treatment of us.

36. Which phrase is used to justify the Americans’ characterization of the
    king’s and Parliament’s actions as “usurpations”?
    A. “petitioned for redress”
    B. “appealed to their native justice and magnanimity”
    C. “deaf to the voice of justice and consanguinity”
    D. “extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction”

37. The president at the time of the Watergate scandal lost political
    support because of his involvement in what activity?
    A. abuse of power and obstruction of justice after a burglary
    B. accepting money in exchange for the appointment of new
       ambassadors
    C. conflict over the policy to follow in Reconstruction
    D. obstruction of justice after a sex scandal

38. Why did Congress enact a law in 1867 ordering the military
    occupation of the South?
    A. to combat the formation of the Confederate States of America
    B. to enforce the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments
    C. in response to the passage of “black codes” that limited the rights
        of former enslaved persons
    D. in response to widespread, ongoing raids by Native Americans on
        southern cities

39. The following is a list of characteristics of the North and South regions
    of the United States before the Civil War. Indicate the box where each
    characteristic belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on
    each characteristic and “drag” it into the correct box.)




Questions 40–42 are based on the following passage:

“At the present moment in world history nearly every nation must choose
between alternative ways of life. The choice is too often not a free one.
One way of life is based upon the will of the majority, and is distinguished
by free institutions, representative government, free elections, guarantees
of individual liberty, freedom of speech and religion, and freedom from
political oppression.

The second way of life is based upon the will of a minority forcibly
imposed upon the majority. It relies upon terror and oppression, a
controlled press and radio; fixed elections, and the suppression of personal
freedoms.

I believe that it must be the policy of the United States to support free
peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by
outside pressures.

I believe that we must assist free peoples to work out their own destinies
in their own way.

I believe that our help should be primarily through economic and financial
aid which is essential to economic stability and orderly political
processes.”

                            —Harry S Truman, address to Congress (1947)

40. In this speech, which introduced the Truman Doctrine, President Harry
    Truman outlined the fundamental differences that divided which two
    sides?
    A. Allies and fascist powers
    B. the United States and Soviet Union
    C. North and South
    D. free democracies and terrorist organizations

41. Truman’s speech led to his adoption of what Cold War policy, which
    was followed by subsequent presidents?
    A. containment, or attempts to prevent communist expansion
    B. détente, or cooperation with the Soviet Union
    C. intervention, or American involvement in the Vietnam War
    D. anticolonialism, or U.S. support for the independence of European-
        held colonies

42. Which action was adopted soon after Truman’s speech in part to
    implement his new policy?
    A. the space race
    B. escalation in Vietnam
    C. the Marshall Plan
    D. expansion of NATO

Questions 43–45 are based on the following quotation:

“When one surveys the world about him after the great storm, noting the
marks of destruction and yet rejoicing in the ruggedness of the things
which withstood it, if he is an American he breathes the clarified
atmosphere with a strange mingling of regret and new hope. We have seen
a world passion spend its fury, but we contemplate our Republic unshaken,
and hold our civilization secure. . . .

The recorded progress of our Republic, materially and spiritually, in itself
proves the wisdom of the inherited policy of noninvolvement in Old World
affairs. Confident of our ability to work out our own destiny, and jealously
guarding our right to do so, we seek no part in directing the destinies of
the Old World. We do not mean to be entangled. We will accept no
responsibility except as our own conscience and judgment, in each
instance, may determine.

Our eyes never will be blind to a developing menace, our ears never deaf
to the call of civilization. We recognize the new order in the world, with
the closer contacts which progress has wrought. We sense the call of the
human heart for fellowship, fraternity, and cooperation. We crave
friendship and harbor no hate. But America, our America, the America
builded on the foundation laid by the inspired fathers, can be a party to no
permanent military alliance. It can enter into no political commitments,
nor assume any economic obligations which will subject our decisions to
any other than our own authority.”

                           —Warren G. Harding, Inaugural Address (1921)

43. What foreign policy position is represented by Harding’s stated aim of
    avoiding any military alliances or political “entanglements” with other
    nations?
    A. American exceptionalism
    B. containment
    C. interventionism
    D. isolationism

44. Harding’s position is in part a reaction to the recent termination of
    what event, which he called “the great storm” and said was marked by
    “destruction” and a “world passion spend[ing] its fury”?
    A. the French Revolution
    B. World War I
    C. World War II
    D. the Cold War

45. Harding states that the United States should “enter into no political
    commitments, nor assume any economic obligations which will
    subject our decisions to any other than our own authority.” This
    position is similar to what modern foreign policy debate?
    A. the war on terrorism
    B. immigration control
    C. influence of the United Nations
    D. free trade agreements

Questions 46–48 are based on the following timeline:
46. Which of these would be the most appropriate title for this timeline?
    A. The Turbulent 1950s and 1960s
    B. Milestones of the Civil Rights Movement
    C. The Triumph of Segregation
    D. Martin Luther King’s Legacy

47. What event most likely prompted Martin Luther King Jr. to write his
    “Letter from a Birmingham Jail”?
    A. Congress’s ongoing debate over the Voting Rights Act
    B. success of the Montgomery bus boycott
    C. criticism of the urgency of the demands from civil rights activists
    D. founding of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

48. Which event most likely pushed Congress to pass the Voting Rights
    Act of 1965?
    A. Freedom Summer
    B. Freedom Rides
    C. Montgomery bus boycott
    D. sit-ins
Question 49 is based on the following photograph taken during the Berlin
Airlift:




    Source: Library of Congress.

49. What was the purpose of this airlift?
    A. to provide arms to German resistance fighters during World War II
    B. to bring supplies to blockaded West Berlin during the Cold War
    C. to strengthen advocates of peace in the last months of World War I
    D. to deliver food and clothing to survivors of the Holocaust

Questions 50–51 are based on the following passage.

During World War II, the Nazi government of Germany committed a
horrific act: the murder by quasi-industrial processes of some 6 million
European Jews who were deemed inferior. The Jews were stripped of their
property, forced into ghettos, and eventually transported to camps, mainly
in the occupied countries to the east of Germany, where they were
systematically put to death. Huge numbers of other groups, such as
prisoners of war and people with mental illnesses, were also murdered, but
the murder of the Jews was different in that it was an attempt to
exterminate an entire population.

50. What name is used to describe the murder of 6 million European Jews
    by the Nazi government of Germany during World War II?
    A. anti-Semitism
    B. the Crusades
    C. the Holocaust
    D. the Resistance

51. What development of the postwar world is in major part a result of the
    Nazis’ action?
    A. the founding of the state of Israel
    B. the Cold War
    C. the founding of the United Nations
    D. decolonization

52. The items in the following list refer either to segregation or
    desegregation in the American South. Indicate the box where each item
    belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click on each item and
    “drag” it into the correct box.)
Questions 53–54 are based on the following map:




53. In which state could a woman vote in a presidential election but not in
    state or local elections before ratification of the Nineteenth
   Amendment? Write your answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

54. Which generalization can be made about women’s voting rights based
    on this map?
    A. Women had full or partial voting rights in nearly two-thirds of the
       states before the Nineteenth Amendment.
    B. Ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment gave voting rights for
       the first time to American women.
    C. The older states of the east and south were most resistant to
       granting women’s suffrage.
    D. The granting of women’s suffrage was a gradual process that took
       many decades.

Questions 55–56 are based on the following passage:

Between January 1965 and December 1966, the 89th United States
Congress enacted the most extensive legislative program since the New
Deal. These laws were transformative pieces of legislation and provided
the cornerstone of President Lyndon Baines Johnson’s far-reaching Great
Society agenda. The Clean Air Act of 1963 was aimed at decreasing air
pollution. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 banned discrimination in housing
and access to public facilities. The Economic Opportunity Act of 1964
created the Job Corps to help unemployed poor people get jobs. Medicare
was established in 1964 to provide health care to the elderly. The Urban
Mass Transportation Act of 1964 provided funding for mass transit
systems in cities. The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
provided federal funding for public schools for the first time and the
Higher Education Act of 1965 provided tuition assistance to those
attending postsecondary schools. The Immigration and Nationality Act of
1965 ended national immigration quotas and opened the country to more
immigration. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 protected the voting rights of
African Americans. The Medicaid Act of 1966 ensured health care for the
poor. The Model Cities Act of 1966 provided funds for urban renewal. The
Child Health and Improvement and Protection Act of 1968 provided for
prenatal and postnatal care. Finally, the Fair Housing Act of 1968 banned
discrimination in rental housing.

                                                    —Source: archives.gov
 [Source: https://www.archives.gov/legislative/resources/education/great-
                                                        society-congress]

55. Based on this list of legislation, what can you conclude was the overall
    goal of Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society program?
    A. to improve society by helping the poor, children, and the elderly
    B. to rescue the economy from collapse
    C. to win a propaganda victory in the Cold War
    D. to unleash market forces by lessening government involvement in
        the economy

56. What was a likely result of this legislation?
    A. an end to poverty
    B. an end to racial discrimination
    C. increased social unrest
    D. increased size of the federal government

Questions 57–59 are based on the following diagram, which details three
of the factors that helped contribute to the outbreak of World War I:
57. Unrest in the Balkans against Austria-Hungary is an example of which
    of these causative factors?
    A. arms race among great powers
    B. desire for autonomous ethnic states within multiethnic empires
    C. scramble for colonies in Africa
    D. competition for raw materials and new markets

58. The competition between Britain and Germany to have the larger fleet
    and the most battleships was an example of which of these causative
    factors?
    A. arms race among great powers
    B. competition for raw materials and new markets
    C. sense of grievances
    D. scramble for colonies in Africa and Asia

59. How were imperialism and nationalism connected?
    A. Imperialism reduced the effectiveness of efforts to reduce class
       conflict.
    B. Imperialism fed the glorification of military virtues.
    C. Addition of new colonies fed national pride.
    D. Obtaining new markets enhanced the success of nationalized
       industries.

Questions 60–61 are based on the following timeline:




60. Place the following events in the correct order, from first to fifth.
    Indicate the box where each step belongs. (Note: On the real GED®
    test, you will click on each step and “drag” it into the correct box.)
    •   Boris Yeltsin is elected president of Russia.
    •   Solidarity candidates win elections in Poland.
    •   Coup against Gorbachev is defeated.
    •   Berlin wall is torn down.
    •   Estonia declares independence.
61. Which event can most definitively be seen as the end of the Cold War?
    A. tearing down of the Berlin Wall
    B. reunification of Germany
    C. election of Solidarity government in Poland
    D. dissolution of the Soviet Union
62. The following sentence contains blanks marked                       .
    Beneath each one is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct
    and belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices
    will appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it
    will appear in the blank.)




    After World War II,                               was divided into
       four
    occupation zones, one of each under the command of Britain,




    France,

Questions 63–65 are based on the following chart:

Results of World War I
63. What goal did President Woodrow Wilson have that was not achieved
    in the peace agreements that ended World War I?
    A. United States joining the League of Nations
    B. success of the Russian Revolution
    C. preservation of the Ottoman Empire
    D. punishment of Germany for starting the war

64. Which country experienced a revolution and the establishment of a
    radical new regime as a result of World War I?
    A. Austria-Hungary
    B. Britain
    C. France
    D. Russia

65. Which country was most likely to experience unrest as a result of the
    harsh terms of the treaties settling World War I?
    A. Britain
    B. France
    C. Germany
    D. United States

66. The items in the following list refer either to Germany, Italy, or the
    Soviet Union during the 1930s and World War II. Indicate the box
    where each item belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will click
    on each item and “drag” it into the correct box.)
67. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    Nazi Germany and Stalin’s Soviet Union are considered
    states because the government exercised complete control over
        society.

68. What was the purpose of the GI Bill passed during World War II?
    A. to encourage more enlistments
    B. to desegregate the armed forces
    C. to provide veterans with educational and housing aid
    D. to institute a draft calling for mandatory service

Question 69 is based on the following map:




69. The map represents what policy pursued by the U.S. government?
    A. advance of Union army in the Civil War
    B. forced removal of Native Americans from traditional lands
    C. westward expansion at the expense of Mexico
    D. seizure of Louisiana Territory

Question 70 is based on the following map:




    Source: https://tpwd.texas.gov/education/resources/keep-texas-
       wild/vaqueros-and-cowboys/images-1/spike_answer_map.jpg.

70. Based on the map, which state was most involved in the cattle
    business? Write your answer on the blank.
    __________________________________

71. Teddy Roosevelt said, “Men with the muckrake are often indispensable
    to the well-being of society, but only if they know when to stop raking
    the muck, and to look upward to the celestial crown above them . . . If
    they gradually grow to feel that the whole world is nothing but muck,
    their power of usefulness is gone.” Who are the “men with the
    muckrake” he describes?
    A. leaders of industry such as John D. Rockefeller
    B. protesters against the Progressive Party
    C. immigrants from Eastern Europe who worked in factories
    D. journalists who attacked industry leaders and institutions as corrupt

Question 72 is based on the following quote from the 1893 Illinois Bureau
of Labor Statistics Report:

“In practice, [this] consists of the farming out by competing
manufacturers to competing contractors the material for garments, which,
in turn, is distributed among competing men and women to be made up.
The middleman, or contractor, is the [oppressor] (though he also may be
himself subjected to pressure from above) and his employees are the . . .
oppressed. He contracts to make up certain garments, at a given price per
piece, and then hires other people to do the work at a less price. His profit
lies in the difference between the two prices.”

72. Which of the following systems does the passage above describe?
    A. the sweatshop system
    B. outsourcing to other countries
    C. collective bargaining
    D. the labor union system

Question 73 is based on the following map:
73. Which conclusion can be drawn from the map?
    A. The territory of the Louisiana Purchase originally belonged to
       Spain.
    B. The western boundary of the Louisiana Purchase is the Colorado
       River.
    C. The Louisiana Purchase nearly doubled the size of the United
       States.
    D. The legality of the Louisiana Purchase was disputed by Spain.

Question 74 is based on the following chart:
74. During which of the following periods did stock prices drop the most?
    A. 1920–1921
    B. 1922–1924
    C. 1928–1930
    D. 1930–1932

Question 75 is based on the following map:
   Source: Background map courtesy of Demis, www.demis.nl and
      Wilcomb E. Washburn (Hrsg.) Handbook of North American
      Indians, Vol. 4: History of Indian–White Relations. Smithsonian
      Institution Press, Washington DC, 1988. ISBN 0-16004-583-5,
      Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?
      curid=2681249.

75. What conclusion can be drawn from the map?
   A. No further lands in Florida were taken after 1833.
   B. The Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Seminole, and Creek tribes
      were the only ones to lose their native lands.
   C. The general trend shows U.S. seizure of native lands moving
      westward.
   D. The Chickasaw tribe’s native lands were all in what is now
      Mississippi.
THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 2: U.S. HISTORY.
                        CHAPTER 3
                            Economics
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 178.

 1. Which of the following constitutes a market?
    A. a public park
    B. a toll road
    C. a sidewalk
    D. a family gathering

Questions 2–4 are based on the following illustration. (Note: On the real
GED® test, you will click on the illustration you want to indicate.)
2. Indicate the worker whose income is not based on the number of hours
   worked.
  __________________________________

3. Indicate the worker whose total income includes a guaranteed base
   salary plus incentives based on output.
  __________________________________

4. Indicate the worker who earns a set amount regardless of how hard he
   or she works.
  __________________________________
Questions 5–7 are based on the following pie charts:




 5. Which market is the closest to having free competition?
    A. web search market
    B. cell phone supplier market
    C. auto manufacturing market
    D. sportswear manufacturing market

 6. Which market comes closest to having monopolistic market
    conditions?
    A. web search market
    B. cell phone supplier market
    C. auto manufacturing market
    D. sportswear manufacturing market

 7. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    Both the cell phone supplier and auto manufacturing markets show




    signs of being .

 8. What federal agency has among its missions ensuring competition?
    A. Consumer Product Safety Commission
    B. Federal Trade Commission
    C. Commerce Department
    D. Fair Trade Commission

 9. Profit, which is the incentive for entrepreneurs to open a business, is
    comparable to what other kind of payment?
    A. interest
    B. rent
    C. taxes
    D. wages

Questions 10–13 are based on the following graph of supply and demand:
10. What label should be placed at location A?
    A. Demand
    B. Price
    C. Quantity
    D. Supply

11. What label should be placed at location B?
    A. Demand
    B. Price
    C. Quantity
    D. Supply

12. What label should be placed at location D?
    A. Demand
    B. Price
    C. Quantity
    D. Supply

13. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
   belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
   appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
   appear in the blank.)




    Location E in this graph indicates the

14. Which of the following activities takes place in a market?
    A. a parent preparing lunch for schoolchildren
    B. a person jogging in the early morning on a city street
    C. a teen playing a game downloaded to a cell phone months before
    D. a job seeker filling out an application

15. What is the fundamental dynamic at work with entrepreneurship?
    A. Entrepreneurs prefer a competitive marketplace.
    B. Entrepreneurs take actions involving risk in the hope of making
       profits.
    C. Entrepreneurs stimulate demand by raising prices.
    D. Entrepreneurs are central to the workings of a command economy.

16. What kind of tax are tariffs most similar to?
    A. income tax
    B. property tax
    C. reduced tax
    D. sales tax

Questions 17–18 are based on the following illustrations. (Note: On the
real GED® test, you will click on the illustration you want to indicate.)
17. Indicate the drawing that represents the factor of production of
    physical capital.
    __________________________________

18. Indicate the drawing that represents the factor of production of labor.
    __________________________________

19. The Sherman and Clayton Antitrust Acts have the goal of addressing
    what market failure?
    A. causing pollution
    B. union organizing
    C. inability to provide public goods
    D. lack of competition

Questions 20–22 are based on the following graphs. (Note: On the real
GED® test, you will click on the box you want to indicate.)




20. Indicate the graph that shows a basic supply curve.
    __________________________________

21. Indicate the graph that shows a supply curve showing the effects of
    new technology that allows for more efficient production.
    __________________________________

22. Indicate the graph that shows a demand curve showing the effects of
    new technology that results in a substitute product that is cheaper than
    the original product.
    __________________________________

23. How does the investment of capital lead to economic growth?
    A. by increasing demand
    B. by increasing specialization
    C. by reducing opportunity cost
    D. by increasing productivity

24. Which is an example of investment in human capital?
    A. buying new computers for an office
    B. building new housing
    C. providing training classes for employees
    D. instituting more efficient production processes

Questions 25–26 are based on the following diagram of the fundamental
problem addressed by economics:




25. What economic term belongs in space [A] in this diagram?
    A. factors
    B. hopes
    C. capital
    D. wants

26. What term belongs in space [B]?
    A. dilemmas
    B. opportunity cost
    C. risk
    D. scarcity

27. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)




    An auto loan is the type of credit called
    in which the borrower pays a set amount each month until the loan is
       paid off.

28. In a loan or credit agreement, why might finance charges be more than
    the interest on the loan?
    A. They also include taxes.
    B. They include compound interest.
    C. They include any fees as well as interest.
    D. They include the principal.

Questions 29–30 are based on the following graphs. (Note: On the real
GED® test, you will click on the box you want to indicate.)
29. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on domestic supply of lowering
    tariffs when foreign suppliers can produce a good at a lower cost than
    domestic producers.
    __________________________________

30. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on domestic demand of
    lowering tariffs when foreign suppliers can produce a good at a lower
    cost than domestic producers.
    __________________________________

31. Which of the following markets is likely to be the most competitive
    because of ease of entry?
    A. laboratory services
    B. dry cleaners
    C. car dealerships
    D. supermarkets
32. What is the law of supply?
    A. Supply always exceeds demand.
    B. Supply is always less than demand because of scarcity.
    C. Supply increases as price increases.
    D. Supply decreases as price increases.

Questions 33–35 are based on the following diagram:




33. This diagram illustrates what fundamental economic concept?
    A. laws of supply and demand
    B. circular flow of goods and services
    C. law of diminishing returns
    D. business cycle

34. According to this diagram, who owns the factors of production?
    A. businesses
    B. government
    C. households
    D. households and businesses

35. How is the role of the government similar to that of business?
    A. It purchases factors and provides services.
    B. It provides a market for business.
    C. It collects taxes.
    D. It is composed of households.

36. The American Recovery Act, passed by Congress in 2009, was an
    example of what government use of fiscal policy during a recession?
    A. increasing taxes to draw money out of the economy
    B. tightening the money supply to combat inflation
    C. loosening the money supply to free up credit
    D. boosting spending to try to stimulate demand

37. Why was the invention of the steam engine so important to the
    Industrial Revolution?
    A. It provided a new source of power that increased output.
    B. It replaced more expensive fossil fuels as a source of power.
    C. It led to increased wages for engineers and mechanics.
    D. It allowed the first factories to operate.

38. What institution oversees U.S. monetary policy and ensures that the
    banking system is sound?
    A. Comptroller of the Currency
    B. Department of the Treasury
    C. Federal Reserve Board
    D. U.S. Mint

Questions 39–41 are based on the following chart:




39. Which of the following is a benefit of a traditional economy?
    A. It is suitable only for a limited population.
    B. It uses resources fairly efficiently.
    C. Productivity is low.
    D. There is little innovation.

40. Which economic system has low productivity and efficiency because
    of the lack of incentives and freedom?
    A. traditional
    B. market
    C. command
    D. mixed

41. What economic system does the United States have?
    A. traditional
    B. market
    C. command
    D. mixed

Question 42 is based on the following illustration:
42. Which drawing represents the kind of market failure called an
    externality, which is a cost imposed on others by one economic actor’s
    behavior? Write the correct drawing number in the blank.
    __________________________________

43. What is an example of the government’s role in meeting market
    failures in a mixed economy?
    A. operation of the stock market
    B. workplace health and safety laws
    C. corporate research and development spending
    D. nonprofit organizations providing community services

44. In terms of its market area, a professional sports team has what kind of
    market position?
    A. free competition
    B. oligopoly
    C. monopoly
    D. regulated utility

45. In terms of the entertainment market, a professional sports team has
    what kind of market position?
    A. free competition
    B. oligopoly
    C. monopoly
    D. regulated utility

Questions 46–47 are based on the following diagram:
46. Which body sets national monetary policy?
    A. Board of Governors
    B. Federal Open Market Committee
    C. Federal Reserve Banks
    D. member banks

47. How does the Federal Reserve System affect banking in the United
    States in general?
    A. by requiring membership in the system
    B. by implementing the president’s monetary policy
    C. through taxation
    D. through banking regulations
Questions 48–49 are based on the following quotation:

“England may be so circumstanced, that to produce the cloth may require
the labor of 100 men for one year; and if she attempted to make the wine,
it might require the labor of 120 men for the same time. England would
therefore find it in her interest to import wine, and to purchase it by the
exportation of cloth.

To produce the wine in Portugal, might require only the labor of 80 men
for one year, and to produce the cloth in the same country, might require
the labor of 90 men for the same time. It would therefore be advantageous
for her to export wine in exchange for cloth . . . notwithstanding that the
commodity imported by Portugal could be produced there with less labor
than in England.”

   —David Ricardo, On the Principles of Political Economy, and Taxation
                                           Source: from Project Gutenberg.

48. Based on this analysis, Ricardo recommends that England concentrate
    on producing wool, which illustrates what economic concept?
    A. comparative advantage
    B. laissez-faire
    C. mercantilism
    D. supply and demand

49. Following Ricardo’s reasoning leads nations to focus on producing the
    goods and services at which they are most efficient, a practice called
    A. absolute advantage
    B. productivity
    C. specialization
    D. investment

Questions 50–52 are based on the following passage:
The United States Congress has enacted several key consumer protection
laws. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act bans discrimination in credit
decisions based on various demographic factors (age, race, gender) or
because a consumer’s income comes from public assistance. The Fair
Credit Billing Act establishes procedures to follow in a credit billing
dispute. The Fair Credit Reporting Act requires creditors to inform
consumers of the agency issuing a credit report on which credit was
denied, gives consumers access to their credit report, and establishes a
procedure for disputing information in a credit report. The Fair Debt
Collections Practices Act sets rules for individuals and businesses
contacting consumers about unpaid debts. The Truth in Lending Act sets
the information that lenders must disclose to borrowers to clarify the
terms of a credit transaction prior to completion of the agreement.

50. Which law most likely contains the provision that requires lenders to
    notify potential borrowers of the interest rate, finance charges, and
    annual percentage rate (APR) of a loan?
    A. Equal Credit Opportunity Act
    B. Fair Credit Billing Act
    C. Fair Credit Reporting Act
    D. Truth in Lending Act

51. A consumer who receives Social Security payments and is denied
    credit could try to protest the decision based on what law?
    A. Equal Credit Opportunity Act
    B. Fair Credit Billing Act
    C. Fair Credit Reporting Act
    D. Fair Debt Collections Practices Act

52. Consumer credit laws are examples of government intervention in the
    economy as a result of addressing what goal?
    A. competition
    B. fair trade
    C. market failures
    D. public goods

53. Which of the following defines the economic concept of opportunity
    cost?
    A. the disappointment experienced as a result of missing a valuable
        opportunity
    B. the next most attractive alternative, given up when making an
        economic choice
    C. the risks associated with any opportunity for a potential economic
        reward
    D. the analysis of the costs and benefits of any economic decision

Questions 54–55 are based on the following graph:




    Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics.

54. In which year did prices rise most sharply? Write your answer in the
    blank.
    __________________________________
55. Based on the data shown in the graph, a recession (a kind of economic
    downturn) was most likely to have begun in which year? Write your
    answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

56. The government collects the data that forms the Consumer Price Index
    (CPI) in order to track what economic problem?
    A. growth
    B. inflation
    C. productivity
    D. unemployment

Questions 57–58 are based on the following graph:




    Source: CIA World Factbook 2014.

57. Compared to the United States, China’s economy grew approximately
    how much faster in 2013?
    A. about two times
    B. nearly five times
    C. almost eight times
    D. nearly ten times

58. What generalization can reasonably be made on the basis of these
    data?
    A. Older industrialized economies performed less well than newly
       industrialized economies.
    B. European economies were outperforming those of other regions.
    C. Growth was lowest in Africa.
    D. Despite its problems, the United States was growing substantially.

Questions 59–60 are based on the following graph:




    Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dept. of Labor.

59. In the period covered by the graph, the unemployment rate was lowest
    in early 2001. In later years, when did the rate again approach that low
    level?
    A. late 2002–early 2003
    B. late 2006–early 2007
    C. late 2008–early 2009
    D. late 2010–early 2013

60. The federal government may use fiscal policy to try to stimulate the
    economy in a period of high and rising unemployment. In which period
    shown on this graph would such an action have been most likely?
    A. early 2004
    B. late 2005–early 2006
    C. early 2009
    D. late 2012–early 2013

Questions 61–62 are based on the following chart:




61. What economic principles are demonstrated by these imports and
    exports?
    A. power of incentives to spur entrepreneurship
    B. global reach of multinationals
    C. benefits of free trade agreements
    D. specialization leading to interdependence

62. What can be inferred about Japan from the list of Japanese exports and
    imports?
    A. lack of an agricultural base
    B. lack of energy resources
    C. development of a postindustrial economy
    D. relatively weak manufacturing base

Question 63 is based on the following passage:

“People are classified as unemployed if they do not have a job, have
actively looked for work in the prior 4 weeks, and are currently available
for work. Actively looking for work may consist of any of the following
activities:

    • Contacting:
      — An employer directly or having a job interview
      — A public or private employment agency
      — Friends or relatives
      — A school or university employment center
    • Submitting resumes or filling out applications
    • Placing or answering job advertisements
    • Checking union or professional registers
    • Some other means of active job search

Passive methods of job search do not have the potential to connect job
seekers with potential employers and therefore do not qualify as active job
search methods. Examples of passive methods include attending a job
training program or course, or merely reading about job openings that are
posted in newspapers or on the Internet.”

            —Bureau of Labor Statistics, “How the Government Measures
                                                       Unemployment”
63. One criticism of government unemployment statistics is that they do
    not count which group of individuals?
    A. people who are unemployed but have given up on finding work
    B. spouses who have not entered the workforce
    C. people who are part-time students at a college or university
    D. people who lose their jobs due to outsourcing

Questions 64–66 are based on the following diagram:




64. What is an appropriate title for this diagram?
    A. The Roles of Banks
    B. The Costs and Benefits of Banking
    C. Regulation of the Banking System
    D. Changes in American Banking

65. Why do banks pay interest to depositors?
    A. to meet federal requirements
    B. to satisfy shareholders
    C. as incentives to depositors
    D. to generate income for lending

66. In which role do banks increase the money supply through the
    multiplier effect?
    A. as businesses
    B. as depository institutions
    C. as employers
    D. as lenders

Question 67 is based on the following diagram:




67. What was an economic cause of the era of European exploration and
    colonization of the fifteenth to eighteenth centuries?
    A. desire to promote capitalism
    B. wish for greater share of Asian trade
    C. desire to profit from the slave trade
    D. monarchs’ and individuals’ desire for power

Questions 68–69 are based on the following chart:




68. Why are savings and money market accounts in banks the most secure
    method of saving or investing?
    A. Banks are careful with money.
    B. Those accounts carry the highest reward.
    C. Banks guarantee to keep enough to pay all deposits on demand.
    D. The principal cannot be lost because the accounts are insured.

69. What generalization can be made about investing?
    A. The higher the risk, the greater the potential reward.
    B. Bonds are safer than money market accounts.
    C. Stocks are not worth investing in because of the risk of losing
       capital.
    D. Savings accounts are worthless because of the low reward.

Questions 70–71 are based on the following diagram:
70. How did the Scientific Revolution help bring about the Industrial
    Revolution?
    A. The loosening of church authority weakened opposition to
       industrialization.
    B. The perception of the universe as mechanistic and knowable
       prompted inventions.
    C. Increased agricultural output prompted industrialization to process
       food.
    D. Reduced reliance on authority weakened aristocrats’ power.

71. How did the Scientific Revolution affect the development of the study
    of economics?
    A. The emphasis on reason shaped Enlightenment thinking.
    B. The principles of experimentation were applied to economic
       questions.
    C. The development of new technology prompted the study of
       economics.
    D. The rejection of classical authority opened a long-forbidden
       subject.

72. Which of the following is a negative effect of government taxation?
    A. funding needed government services
    B. providing resources for national defense
    C. withdrawing money from circulation
    D. reducing disposable income

Question 73 is based on the following diagram:
73. According to the diagram, what economic aspect of the Treaty of
    Versailles, which ended World War I, contributed to economic troubles
    in Germany?
    A. loss of colonies
    B. the Great Depression
    C. high reparations payments
    D. increased nationalist feeling

74. What was an economic impact of the American Civil War?
    A. greater industrialization of the North
    B. rapid industrialization of the South
    C. entrenchment of the slave economy in the South
    D. expansion of slavery to the West

Question 75 is based on the following graph:




75. Which of the following is an example of how supply affects price?
    A. Three new hospitals have opened in the city while healthcare costs
       continue to rise.
    B. During World War II, the U.S. government rationed sugar, meat,
       butter, and other commodities that had become scarce during war
       time.
    C. An exclusive luxury car must be preordered to the buyer’s
       specifications and can take up to eight weeks to manufacture and
       deliver.
    D. A bakery produced eight dozen cookies, but an hour before closing
       only 6.5 dozen had sold. The bakery offered the remaining cookies
       at half price.
THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 3: ECONOMICS.
                          CHAPTER 4
          Geography and the World
Directions: Answer the following questions. For multiple-choice
questions, choose the best answer. For other questions, follow the
directions preceding the question. Answers begin on page 180.

Questions 1–2 are based on the following quotation:

“A State is an aggregation of free human beings, bound together by
common ties, some of which may be called natural, some artificial. The
chief natural ties are community of [ethnicity], of language, of religion, of
sentiment or historical association, and lastly of land, i.e., of the territory
which the State occupies. The most important artificial ties are law,
custom, executive government; these are common bonds which the people
have gradually developed for themselves and are not, in the same degree
as the natural ties, original factors in their cohesion. There are also other
ties which do not exactly fall under either of these divisions, such as the
common interests of commerce and of self-defense.

Now it is obvious that a State, in order to deserve the name, need not be
held together by all these ties at once. Very few, if any, States have realized
them all. But every State must have what we call the artificial ties, in
some tolerably obvious form; that is, every State must have at least some
laws which bind the whole community, and a common government to
enforce obedience to those laws. Without these the word State cannot be
applied to it, but only some such vague expression as ‘nation,’ . . . or
‘people,’ words which in our language do not usually connote
governmental cohesion. . . . Nor can any community be called a State
which is not wholly independent of every other community.”

        —William Warde Fowler, The City-State of the Ancient Greeks and
                                                         Romans (1913)
 1. Based on Fowler’s definition, which of the following would constitute
    a State?
    A. the Kurdish minority in Iran
    B. Mexico
    C. the United Nations
    D. Washington State

 2. Fowler says that a State must have “community of [ethnicity], of
    language, of religion, of sentiment or historical association, and lastly
    of land” and that it includes “artificial ties” such as “law, custom,
    executive government.” What aspects of the United States suggest
    Fowler should have written a broader definition of a State?
    A. separation of Alaska and Hawaii from the rest of the country
    B. geographic diversity of the land
    C. division into state and federal governments
    D. ethnic, language, and religious diversity

Questions 3–5 are based on the following graph:
   Source: United Nations.

3. Which region is expected to see a population decline from 2013 to
   2050?
   A. Asia
   B. Africa
   C. Europe
   D. North America

4. Which region is expected to have its population more than double from
   2013 to 2050?
   A. Asia
   B. Africa
   C. Latin America and the Caribbean
   D. North America

5. Based on these population trends, which region will have the most
   difficulty generating enough jobs for its population in the future?
   Which region will have the most difficulty finding workers?
    A. Africa; Europe
    B. Europe; Asia
    C. Latin America and the Caribbean; North America
    D. North America; Europe

Questions 6–8 are based on the following chart:

Energy Consumption, 2010–2040 (projected)




 6. Which is the best explanation for why the countries of the OECD
    surpassed all other countries in the world in energy consumption in
    2010?
    A. The OECD countries have a large share of the world’s population.
    B. The OECD countries use highly efficient energy systems.
    C. The OECD countries have had high rates of economic growth in
       recent decades.
    D. The OECD countries include most of the large industrial
       economies.
 7. Which region is expected to surpass the OECD in energy consumption
    in the future, and in what year?
    A. Africa, by 2040
    B. Asia, by 2030
    C. Europe and the Middle East combined, by 2020
    D. Europe, by 2040

 8. What is the best explanation for why the average annual growth rate of
    energy consumption is higher among non-OECD countries than among
    the OECD countries?
    A. They have larger populations, which require more energy.
    B. They are developing their economies faster, which requires energy.
    C. They have the largest and most productive economies.
    D. They have greater reserves of oil and natural gas than OECD
       countries.

 9. Which of the following is the best definition of sustainability?
    A. conserving energy and abandoning fossil fuels
    B. keeping an economy at current production levels
    C. using resources carefully to ensure that they are available in the
       future
    D. maintaining zero population growth to minimize resource use

Questions 10–11 are based on the following map:
10. What is the purpose of a map title?
    A. to indicate what the map is about
    B. to make it easier to locate the map
    C. to identify the map projection
    D. to identify the area of the map

11. Indicate the element that shows the scale of the map. (Note: On the
    real GED® test, you will click on the spot on the map you want to
    indicate.)
    __________________________________________
    __________________________________________
    __________________________________________
    __________________________________________

Questions 12–13 are based on the following quotation:
“The Purposes of the United Nations are:

    1. To maintain international peace and security, and to that end: to take
       effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of
       threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression or
       other breaches of the peace, and to bring about by peaceful means,
       and in conformity with the principles of justice and international
       law, adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations
       which might lead to a breach of the peace;
    2. To develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for
       the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, and
       to take other appropriate measures to strengthen universal peace;
    3. To achieve international co-operation in solving international
       problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian
       character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human
       rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
       race, sex, language, or religion; and
    4. To be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the
       attainment of these common ends.”

                                        —United Nations Charter, Article I

12. What is the primary goal of the United Nations?
    A. meeting humanitarian needs in a crisis
    B. providing a forum for nations to state their views
    C. ensuring peaceful relations between nations
    D. promoting economic development and social progress

13. Which phrase in this statement of goals could be used by the United
    Nations to justify support for the independence movement of an ethnic
    or religious minority?
    A. “encouraging respect for human rights”
    B. “encouraging respect . . . for fundamental freedoms”
    C. “in conformity with the principles of justice and international law”
    D. “the principle of . . . self-determination of peoples”
Questions 14–16 are based on the following passage:

There are several important themes of geography to consider when
studying a region. Location refers to more than just the physical location
of the place. We must also ask why it is located there and what is the
significance of that location. The theme of place refers to both the
physical characteristics of a place and the human characteristics of that
place. Region involves characteristics that a place has in common with
nearby places and how the characteristics of those places make them
different from other places. Movement refers to the movement of people
into and out of the place and the effects this movement has had on the
character of the place. Finally, we consider human-environment
interaction. How does the physical environment shape ways of life in a
place and how do humans change the physical environment?

14. What theme of geography is indicated by using a GPS signal on a
    smartphone?
    A. location
    B. place
    C. region
    D. movement

15. The ethnic makeup of a city as a result of immigration is an example
    of what themes of geography?
    A. location and region
    B. place and movement
    C. place and region
    D. movement and human-environment interaction

16. Building a dam to provide hydroelectric power is an example of what
    theme of geography?
    A. location
    B. region
    C. movement
    D. human-environment interaction

Questions 17–18 are based on the following diagrams:




17. Geographers use latitude and longitude to determine what kind of
    location?
    A. absolute location
    B. elevation above sea level
    C. relative location
    D. seasonal location

18. Which of the following continents is in the Western Hemisphere?
    A. Africa
    B. Asia
    C. Europe
    D. South America

Questions 19–20 are based on the following graph:
    Source: Population Reference Bureau.

19. Which region of the world has the smallest share of its population in
    the productive working age?
    A. Asia
    B. Africa
    C. Latin America and the Caribbean
    D. Oceania

20. Based on the demographic data, what social issue is more of a concern
    in Europe and North America than in Asia or Latin America and the
    Caribbean?
    A. education
    B. housing
    C. elder care
    D. infant mortality

Questions 21–22 are based on the following quotation:
“A Geographic Information System or GIS is a computer system that
allows you to map, model, query, and analyze large quantities of data
within a single database according to their location. GIS gives you the
power to:

    •   create maps
    •   integrate information
    •   visualize scenarios
    •   present powerful ideas, and
    •   develop effective solutions

GIS is a tool used by individuals and organizations, schools, governments,
and businesses seeking innovative ways to solve their problems. GIS
stores information about the world as a collection of layers that can be
linked together by a common locational component such as latitude and
longitude, a postal zip code, census tract name, or road name. These
geographic references allow you to locate features on the earth’s surface
for analysis of patterns and trends. Dozens of map layers can be arrayed to
display information about transportation networks, hydrography,
population characteristics, economic activity, and political jurisdictions.”

                 —Environmental Protection Agency, Mid-Atlantic Region

21. Which of the following probably makes use of a GIS?
    A. hand-drawn map giving directions to a friend
    B. smartphone mapping app
    C. map of the Roman Empire
    D. visual directory at a shopping mall

22. What kind of information would most likely be helpful to the
    Environmental Protection Agency?
    A. hydrography of a region
    B. socioeconomic characteristics of a population
    C. ethnic composition of a population
    D. school districts in a region

Questions 23–25 are based on the following graph:




23. Which statement describes the expected growth of carbon emissions in
    the OECD countries from 2010 to 2040?
    A. rapid and substantial
    B. relatively modest
    C. marked by sharp rises and falls
    D. generally declining

24. How much are carbon emissions expected to change in the non-OECD
    countries from 1990 to 2040?
    A. increase minimally
    B. about double
    C. more than triple
    D. increase ten times

25. Scientists urge holding down the growth of carbon emissions because
    they see a connection between these emissions and what environmental
    issue?
    A. climate change
    B. water pollution
    C. rising biodiversity
    D. falling sea levels

26. What is meant by a “carbon footprint”?
    A. the pollution that a household or business creates
    B. the pollution caused by fossil fuels
    C. the total carbon emissions of a household or business
    D. the amount of carbohydrates a person consumes

Questions 27–29 are based on the following chart:

Types of Maps
27. What type of map is most likely to show and label rivers, lakes,
    mountain ranges, and plateaus?
    A. climate
    B. economic
    C. physical
    D. political

28. What type of map would most likely be used to show the location of oil
    and natural gas deposits?
    A. climate
    B. economic
    C. physical
    D. political

29. A map showing the territorial growth of the United States over time
    would be what type of map?
    A. economic
    B. physical
    C. political
    D. thematic

Questions 30–32 are based on the following diagram:




    Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration.

30. Fossil fuels form about what percentage of U.S. energy supply and of
    U.S. energy consumption?
    A. supply: about 50 percent; consumption: about 90 percent
    B. about two-thirds of each
    C. supply: about 90 percent; consumption: about 90 percent
    D. supply: about 65 percent; consumption: about 80 percent
31. What most likely accounts for the fact that the percentage of fossil
    fuels in U.S. consumption is higher than the percentage of fossil fuels
    in supply?
    A. Fossil fuels are consumed in many different ways.
    B. Energy supplies are falling rapidly.
    C. Most fuel imports are fossil fuels.
    D. Most renewable energy is exported.

32. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    Energy supply exceeds energy consumption because some energy is




                                 .

33. Which of the following is considered a renewable energy resource?
    A. coal-fired power plants
    B. hydroelectric power
    C. natural gas
    D. nuclear power

34. Which of the following gives the absolute location of a building?
    A. its street address
    B. directions from another building
    C. nearby highway exit
    D. architectural blueprints of the building
35. Which of the following states the relative location of Lagos, Nigeria?
    A. Lagos is at 6° N latitude and 3° E longitude.
    B. Lagos is 114 feet (35 m) above sea level.
    C. Lagos is on the western edge of the Lagos Lagoon, near the coast of
       the Gulf of Guinea.
    D. Lagos is the capital of Nigeria and has a population of 15 million
       people in the metropolitan area.

36. The following sentence contains a blank marked                         .
    Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
    belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
    appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will
    appear in the blank.)
    The higher the percentage of a country’s population living in urban




       areas, the higher the                                    .

Questions 37–38 are based on the following chart:

Types of Regions
37. Match each region in the list with its correct type. Indicate the box
    where each region belongs. (Note: On the real GED® test, you will
    click on each region and “drag” it into the correct box.)




38. What makes Latin America a cultural region?
    A. location in the Western Hemisphere
    B. history of settlement by similar ethnic groups
    C. similar economies and standards of living
    D. similar physical features and climate

Questions 39–40 are based on the following pictogram:




    Source: World Bank.

39. According to this pictogram, the United States had about how many
    more immigrants than Russia, the country with the next highest
    number?
    A. about 12 million
    B. about 21 million
    C. about 30 million
    D. about 42 million

40. The United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Australia all
    receive large numbers of immigrants. Which feature of these societies
    most likely makes them attractive to immigrants?
    A. climate
    B. economy
    C. English language
   D. membership in the UN

Questions 41–43 are based on the following pictograms:
    Source: World Bank.

41. Half of the countries that have the highest numbers of emigrants are
    located on what continent?
    A. Africa
    B. Asia
    C. Europe
    D. North America

42. Remittances are funds that immigrants send back to their home
    country, generally to family members. How much more in remittances
    does India receive than Mexico?
    A. about $16 billion
    B. about $32 billion
    C. about $27 billion
    D. about $55 billion

43. Which statement best explains why remittances to China exceed those
    to Mexico even though overall emigration from China is lower than
    emigration from Mexico?
    A. Chinese emigrants earn more.
    B. Mexican emigrants generally return home.
    C. Chinese emigrants pay fewer taxes.
    D. Mexican emigrants spend all their wages.

44. Why are fossil fuels such as oil, natural gas, and coal considered
    nonrenewable resources?
    A. They are very costly.
    B. Burning them adds to air pollution.
    C. They are found deep within the Earth.
    D. They take millions of years to be replaced.
45. What is an example of cultural diffusion as a result of immigration?
    A. popularity of ethnic foods in the United States
    B. popularity of Hollywood movies in Europe
    C. adoption of baseball in Japan
    D. accessibility of information through the Internet

46. How do metropolitan areas compare to cities?
    A. They are the original core of the city.
    B. They include surrounding suburbs.
    C. They are parts of the same administrative units.
    D. They include the rural areas that supply food.

47. Which of the following is an example of human changes to the
    environment?
    A. movement of immigrants
    B. cultural diffusion
    C. building a canal
    D. hunting and gathering lifestyle

48. What is the major factor leading to urbanization in developing
    countries?
    A. people seeking economic opportunity
    B. rural populations escaping prejudice
    C. migrants fleeing political persecution
    D. urban areas claiming more land

Questions 49–51 are based on the following map:
49. The regions of the United States are differentiated on what basis?
    A. physical geography and climate
    B. history and demographics
    C. physical geography and human characteristics
    D. economic activity

50. According to the map, what ethnic group is a significant part of the
    population in the South, Southwest, and West?
    A. African Americans
    B. Asian Americans
    C. Latinos
    D. Native Americans

51. Which region would offer the best economic opportunity to both
    computer programmers and financial planners?
    A. Midwest
    B. Northeast
    C. South
    D. West

52. What term is used to describe the adaptation of an immigrant group to
    the culture of the dominant society?
    A. assimilation
    B. formalization
    C. migration
    D. urbanization

Questions 53–54 are based on the following passage:

Different tools of geography offer distinct advantages and disadvantages,
so it is important to choose the right tool for the job. A globe is a three-
dimensional model of Earth. It provides an accurate representation of sizes
and shapes of areas and is somewhat flexible in the types of information
that can be presented. However, it is not easily portable, and it can show
only large parts of Earth, making focus on smaller areas impossible. A
map is a two-dimensional representation of all or part of Earth that is quite
flexible in terms of size and format. A map is also very flexible in the
types of information that can be presented. A map can represent both large
and small areas. The major disadvantage of a map is that it distorts sizes
and shapes of areas. Unlike globes and maps, a geographic information
system (GIS) relies on technology. A GIS is a computerized system that
allows combinations of different kinds of data. A GIS can display a large
amount of data and can simulate three-dimensional presentation in
computer graphics. One drawback of a GIS is that when using a two-
dimensional display, we have the same distortion issues that maps have. A
GIS also requires a consistent and accurate input of data.

53. What is the chief advantage of maps over globes?
    A. They are more flexible in many different ways.
    B. They are more portable and easier to use.
    C. They are more accurate than globes.
    D. They can reflect complex data from GISs.

54. Why is it that all maps distort sizes or shapes of the Earth?
    A. They are smaller than the area they depict.
    B. They cannot show as much detail.
    C. They present three-dimensional space in two dimensions.
    D. Illustration programs are not accurate enough.

55. Which of the following is an example of how people use technology to
    make land more productive for farming?
    A. growing grain on the Great Plains of the United States
    B. terrace farming to grow potatoes in the Andes
    C. producing citrus fruit in Florida
    D. hunting and gathering in a desert area

56. Which of the following is an example of cultural diffusion?
    A. teaching children a native language
    B. recording a folk song
    C. adapting housing to the environment
    D. building a Hindu temple in California

57. Which of the following political entities is most likely to include the
    largest territory and the greatest ethnic diversity?
    A. city-state
    B. colony
    C. empire
    D. nation-state

Questions 58–60 are based on the following chart:

Migration Terminology




58. Which of these types of migrants is most likely to come from a
    religious, ethnic, or political minority?
    A. asylee
    B. immigrant
    C. migrant worker
    D. sojourner

59. Which of the following examples of historical migrations is most
    likely characterized as a diaspora?
    A. movement of English-speaking colonists to North America in the
       1600s and 1700s
    B. movement of Germanic peoples from Central Asia to Europe in the
       classical world
    C. movement west of white Americans throughout the 1800s
    D. movement of Africans to the Americas in the Atlantic slave trade

60. Which type of migration is most likely to result in the creation of an
    ethnic community in the destination country?
    A. asylum seeking
    B. chain migration
    C. simple immigration
    D. sojourner migration

Questions 61–63 are based on the following graphs:
    Source: CIA World Factbook.

61. In which region of the world do oil reserves seem to be most
    concentrated?
    A. Africa
    B. Europe
    C. North America
    D. Southwest Asia

62. Based on a comparison of oil production to oil reserves, which country
    seems to be making use of its oil in a very conservative manner?
    A. Canada
    B. Iran
    C. Saudi Arabia
    D. Iraq

63. Which statement can reasonably be inferred from the second graph?
    A. Most oil produced by the United States is consumed in the United
       States.
    B. Most oil produced by the United States is exported.
    C. The United States produces most of the oil that it consumes.
    D. The United States exports more oil than any other country except
       Saudi Arabia.

64. Which of the following is a measure of a country’s standard of living?
    A. degree of political freedom
    B. life expectancy
    C. languages spoken
    D. dominant religion

65. The development of fusion cuisine that mixes European and Asian
    flavors and cooking techniques is an example of what phenomenon?
    A. assimilation
    B. ethnocentrism
    C. cultural diffusion
    D. dominant religion

66. What is a danger of a country’s relying too much on one or two
    products for export?
    A. It becomes subject to price fluctuations and reliant on foreign
       demand.
    B. Its populace becomes too skilled at producing the product.
    C. It can be difficult to master the technology to produce that product.
    D. The climate is not suited to producing the product.

Questions 67–69 are based on the following graph:




    Source: United Nations, World Urbanization Prospects, The 2011
       Revision.

67. Which category saw the highest growth rate in the periods shown on
    the graph?
    A. world, 1950–1970
    B. less developed regions, 1950–1970
    C. less developed regions, 1970–2011
    D. more developed regions, 2030–2050

68. Which describes the general change over time shown in the graph?
    A. highest rates of growth for urbanization in less developed regions
       but declines in all areas over time
    B. highest rates of growth for urbanization in more developed regions
       but declines in all areas over time
    C. fluctuating rates of growth among both more and less developed
       regions over time
    D. steady growth of urban populations in less developed regions
       over time

69. Which generalization explains why rates of urban population growth
    were less for more developed than less developed regions?
    A. Cities in more developed regions are less attractive than in less
       developed regions.
    B. Population movement in more developed regions is generally
       toward suburbs.
    C. More developed regions were already highly urbanized.
    D. More developed regions are generally experiencing population
       declines.

70. Which of the following is most likely to be a factor in the spread of an
    infectious disease from one part of the world to another?
    A. goods exports
    B. international travel
    C. Internet access
    D. outsourcing jobs

Questions 71–72 are based on the following map:
    Source: United Nations: World Population Prospects: The 2008
       Revision.

71. In terms of number of religions with sizeable numbers of adherents,
    which region is the most religiously diverse?
    A. Africa
    B. Oceania
    C. Asia
    D. North America

72. What phenomenon does the diversity of religions around the world
    reflect?
    A. colonialism
    B. cultural diffusion
    C. globalization
    D. technological advances

Questions 73–74 are based on the following chart:




73. Based on the statistics in this chart, the gross national income per
    capita in Asia is closest to that of which category?
    A. world
    B. more developed countries
    C. less developed countries
    D. least developed countries

74. Which region is most likely to make up a major share of the least
    developed countries?
    A. Latin America and the Caribbean
    B. North Africa
    C. Oceania
    D. Sub-Saharan Africa

Question 75 is based on the following information:

      Environmental Protection Agency
Recommendations for Reducing Carbon Footprint
    1. Reduce energy by using Energy Star lightbulbs and appliances, by
       maintaining home heating and cooling systems, and by sealing and
       insulating the home.
    2. Conserve energy and resources by reducing waste; reusing
       materials; and recycling paper, glass, and plastic.
    3. Use less energy in travel by walking, biking, or using mass transit
       when possible; combining trips; and improving fuel efficiency.
    4. Use renewable fuels for vehicles such as E85 and biodiesel.

                                       —Environmental Protection Agency

75. Which of the following most significantly reduces an individual’s
    carbon footprint?
    A. switching from driving a gas-powered car to riding a bicycle
    B. replacing traditional lightbulbs in the home with Energy Star
       lightbulbs
    C. collecting glass and plastic bottles in the neighborhood to recycle
    D. trading in an E85 flex-fuel car for one that uses biodiesel




       THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER 4: GEOGRAPHY AND THE
                                                WORLD.
                 ANSWERS AND
                 EXPLANATIONS
Chapter 1: Civics and Government
1. A Locke says that men are naturally free, so this is the philosophy of
   natural rights.

2. C Natural rights are the same as “unalienable rights.”

3. Checks by president on other branches include veto power (over the
   legislative branch) and appointment power (over the judicial branch).
   Checks on presidential power include the legislature’s power of
   impeachment and the judiciary’s power to declare presidential acts as
   unconstitutional.

4. B The delegates were very concerned about limiting the power of the
   federal government since they had just fought a war to gain
   independence.

5. A The United States has a representative democracy in which the
   people elect representatives to govern.

6. D Direct democracy is when the people rule directly. New England
   town meetings are an example of this because the whole town may
   speak and vote on issues.

7. B Both federal and state governments must have money to operate, and
   they have different tasks to accomplish.

8. D Canada is a foreign country, so only the federal government may
   make trade agreements with Canada.

9. A Federalism is the system of dividing, or sharing, power.
10. B The only duty the Constitution specifies for the vice president is to
    act as presiding officer of the Senate.

11. A The biggest difference is that the British prime minister can disband
    Parliament. The U.S. president cannot disband Congress.

12. Two-year term: member of the U.S. House; four-year term: president,
    vice president; six-year term: U.S. senator

13. The president is elected by a majority of electoral votes.

14. C Supreme Court justices serve for life.

15. C The current debate on gun control is based on the Second
    Amendment.

16. B The Second Amendment specifies that it applies to a “well regulated
    Militia” and many people today argue that militias are no longer
    necessary because the United States has armed services and that
    regular citizens have no need of guns to defend the security of the
    state.

17. D Separation of church and state would prohibit state-run schools from
    requiring prayer.

18. A The court most likely thought that a law prohibiting free expression
    (in this case cross-burning) is contrary to the First Amendment right to
    free speech.

19. C A researcher who thinks pornography is linked to violence against
    children might support limiting that type of free speech. The other
    choices describe people who are actively using their right to free
    speech.

20. C Between 1929 and 1949, there were 885 vetoes, which is by far the
    most.
21. A The number of vetoes jumped dramatically in 1869–1889, and the
    veto continued to be used at a much higher rate than previously.

22. C Considering the number of vetoes and the number overridden by
    Congress, one can conclude that most vetoes are not overridden. After
    1869, the rate is lower than 10% for every period except 1969–1989,
    when it was 14%.

23. B After 1869, the data becomes widely separated and would be
    difficult to show on one graph with a single scale.

24. Basic rights: First, Second, Ninth; rights of the accused: Fourth, Fifth,
    Sixth, Eighth

25. A The Fourth Amendment bans unwarranted search and seizure.

26. D The Sixth Amendment guarantees the right to legal counsel.

27. B The Fourth Amendment bans unwarranted search and seizure.

28. C The Fourteenth Amendment granted citizenship to African
    American males, and the Fifteenth gave them the right to vote.

29. D The Twenty-Sixth Amendment gave people ages 18–21 the right to
    vote.

30. B States set their own election rules, but the federal government can
    set the rules on federal elections.

31. B The Nineteenth Amendment, allowing women to vote, impacted
    roughly 50% of the population.

32. Speaker of the House

33. D The rule of law states that no one is exempt from the law, so even
    the president must obey the law.
34. C To override a veto, Congress needs a two-thirds majority in both
    houses.

35. executive

36. C Land management, national parks, fish, and wildlife all fall under
    the Department of the Interior.

37. C This is the principle of popular sovereignty because the people rule.

38. B The Preamble states the reasons for the Constitution.

39. B Any bill must have approval by both the House and Senate. In
    addition, a bill cannot become law without either the president’s
    signature or a Congressional override of a presidential veto.

40. A If two versions of a bill are approved, it must go to committee for
    revision to a single version.

41. B The number of electoral votes is determined by the number of
    congressional representatives for each state.

42. C Candidates are chosen in primary elections.

43. B Article III establishes the judicial branch.

44. C The assertion that the Constitution is the “supreme law of the land”
    is found in Article VI, which lists “supremacy of Constitution and
    federal laws.”

45. A Interest groups do not have candidates that run for office (as
    representatives of their interest groups).

46. governor

47. B The Sierra Club is well known for its efforts to protect the
    environment and promote conservation.
48. B The passage says, “a government in which the scheme of
    representation takes place.”

49. B The first paragraph describes pure democracy as being for a small
    number of citizens.

50. C The first paragraph says, “There is nothing to check the inducements
    to sacrifice the weaker party.”

51. D Congress can stretch its power to “make all Laws which shall be
    necessary.”

52. B Preventing discrimination is protecting minority rights.

53. nine

54. vice president; Speaker of the House

55. A Conventions are held to determine which candidates will run for
    president and vice president.

56. B Because senators have a six-year term, one-third of the Senate seats
    are up for election every two years.

57. B In 1992, the Reform Party got a significant share of the votes.

58. D In 2000, Bush won the electoral vote, but Gore won the popular vote.

59. D Oregon, Washington, and Wisconsin were majority Democratic
    states in all four elections.

60. D Texas, North Dakota, and South Dakota were majority Republican
    states in all four elections.

61. C The asterisk says that the other method for proposal has never been
    used, so every amendment proposed so far has been with approval
    from two-thirds majorities in the House and Senate.
62. A The founding fathers wanted the Constitution to be enduring and
    strong, but not impossible to change if necessary.

63. C Like the United States, Mexico is a republic, with the president as
    head of the government and chief of state.

64. D Saudi Arabia is a monarchy in which the king holds the most power.

65. B A theocratic state has a religious leader as its head. Iran has such a
    leader as chief of state.

66. C Article I, Section II, of the Constitution requires that every 10 years
    a census be taken to determine the number of representatives each
    state will have in the House of Representatives.

67. A The last line of the passage says that larger populations make it less
    likely that a majority will impose upon the rights of a minority.

68. C In the line following the phrase “factious combinations,” Madison
    refers to them as “distinct parties and interests.”

69. 435; 100

70. C In the first line, the court acknowledges “the importance of the
    general privilege of confidentiality.”

71. B The first line of the second paragraph says that withholding this
    evidence “would cut deeply into the guarantee of due process.”

72. A The court asserted that the general idea of privilege does not
    outweigh the guarantee of due process, so the president would have to
    turn over the subpoenaed documents.

73. D The first three items begin with the phrase “Protect the United
    States.”

74. C Discrimination is a matter of civil rights.
75. B Hackers are committing cyberbased attacks.

76. sovereignty Individual states within the United States do not have
    sovereignty.

77. territory A common locality would be a territory.

78 register

79. B Repugnant means in conflict with, and void means not valid.

80. D Judicial review is the power to decide whether a law is
    constitutional.

81. C Because the Constitution can be amended, it can change with the
    needs of the society.

82. B Retirement benefits are dependent on age eligibility.

83. D Survivors benefits are for minor children whose deceased parent had
    been receiving retirement benefits.

84. D The chart says that the English test is not necessary for some older
    immigrants.

85. B Naturalization is for eligible immigrants who want to become
    citizens.

86. D These are members of the president’s staff, so would be under White
    House Staff.

87. C Independent agencies and government corporations would be the
    most independent.

88. A This is the only period shown in which federal employment went
    down.
89. C For most of the period covered, federal employment rose. This
    likely means that more services were being provided by the federal
    government.

90. D “All men are created equal . . .” comes from the Magna Carta’s
    assertion that no one, including the king, is exempt from the laws.

91. A Freedom of religion is protected by the First Amendment.

92. B The U.S. Department of Energy, and all other cabinet departments,
    are a part of the Executive Branch.

93. B The decisions differ on what it means to be “equal.”

94. New citizens promise to support the laws of the United States, serve in
    the armed forces if called upon, and renounce allegiance to any foreign
    country.

95. A Researching “biological effects” falls within the mission of the NIH
    to enhance health and reduce illness.

96. First, someone has an idea for a bill; second, the type of bill is
    determined; third, the text of the bill is written; fourth, a member of
    Congress sponsors the bill; fifth, support for the bill is gathered.

97. A The Office of Partner Engagement reports to the deputy director.

98. C A person must be a resident of New York to vote in New York.

99. D Full-time members of police departments are prohibited from
    serving, even if they wish to serve.

100. B A democracy would be most likely to choose a leader through a fair
   and free election.

Chapter 2: U.S. History
1. B The Mayflower Compact was written by the settlers of Plymouth,
    Massachusetts. It is the first governing document written by colonists
    in the New World.

2. A The colonists pledge to form a “civil body politic” and obey the laws
    they make together.

3. Choosing the president: electoral college; representation in Congress:
    Great Compromise; counting enslaved people in population: Three-
    Fifths Compromise

4. Strengths included the power of Congress to make treaties, to declare
    war, and to form new states (with populations over 60,000).
    Weaknesses included the taxation power of Congress, which could not
    be enforced; the amendment process, which made changing the
    document very difficult; and the lack of a federal court system.

5. C The gray area on the map shows that people were removed from the
    West Coast. Most of them were interred further toward the interior of
    the country.

6. B President Roosevelt issued the executive order in 1942. Wilson was
    president during WWI; Truman became president just before the end
    of WWII; and Eisenhower served after the end of WWII.

7. B The removal of Japanese Americans from their homes and relocation
    to internment camps was similar to the removal of Native Americans
    from their homes and relocation to reservations.

8. D This took place during the War of 1812. It is the only conflict listed
    that took place between the British and Americans when Washington
    was the nation’s capital.

9. 2007 The only year that the number of employees decreased was 2007,
    so that is most likely the year it had funding cuts.

10. C After September 11, 2001, American increased its efforts to fight
    terrorism.
11. taxation; crime and punishment

12. D The passages are concerned with the rule of law. The final paragraph
    states this most directly.

13. C Clause 20 says that freeman should be punished “according to the
    degree of the offense.”

14. First, Magna Carta; second, the Mayflower Compact; third, the English
    Bill of Rights; fourth, the Declaration of Independence; fifth, the U.S.
    Constitution

15. D The largest number of immigrants in every single period came from
    Europe.

16. C You can use your calculator to find the exact number (20,773,075) or
    you can round the numbers: 4.5 million + 3.5 million + 7.5 million + 5
    million = 19.5 million. Choice C is closest to that estimate.

17. C There was a big drop in immigration from Asia in the period 1880–
    1889, so that is likely to be when the act was passed.

18. D Immigration from Europe grew between 1860 and 1869 and through
    1900–1909. After that it dropped significantly. Choice D is the only
    answer choice after that drop.

19. War of 1812: Britain and United States, 1812–1815; Civil War: North
    and South, 1861–1865; World War I: Allied and Central Powers, 1914–
    1918; World War II: United Nations and Axis, 1939–1945.

20. A The Great Compromise was between large and small states. It
    helped establish the system of representation structured in the
    Constitution.

21. D Yugoslavia was a communist country.

22. D The United States was a member of NATO; the other countries were
    not.
23. B You can infer that they were not communist countries because there
    is a different color for those on the map.

24. A The first paragraph cites the “laws of nature,” and the second
    paragraph says power is derived from “the consent of the governed.”

25. C The first paragraph says it has become “necessary for one people to
    dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another.”

26. C Italy could not be counted on because it had a secret treaty with
    France.

27. A Austria-Hungary feared the growth of Serbia and Russia was aligned
    with Serbia.

28. C The alliances were so entangled that a local problem spread out to
    involve many nations.

29. D France’s assistance was vital to the success of the American
    Revolution.

30. Thirteenth Amendment: abolition of slavery; Fourteenth Amendment:
    citizenship for African Americans; Fifteenth Amendment: suffrage for
    African American males.

31. A The first paragraph says, “enough has now been given to party,” and
    the second paragraph mentions “past party dissensions.”

32. D The last line of the passage says it is America’s “manifest destiny to
    overspread the continent.”

33. D Nixon is the only president to have resigned.

34. Washington: served as first president, commander of Continental
    Army, president of Constitutional Convention; Jefferson: wrote
    Declaration of Independence, made Louisiana Purchase.
35. C The last paragraph says the people have warned the British,
    reminded them, appealed to their sense of justice, and evoked their
    common ties, and yet the British “have remained deaf to the voice of
    justice.”

36. D An usurpation is a wrongful exercise of authority.

37. A Nixon lost political support after attempting to cover up his
    administration’s involvement in the burglary at the Democratic
    National Committee headquarters in the Watergate office complex.

38. C After the Civil War, Southern states passed “Black Codes” to restrict
    the freedom of African Americans. Congress passed the Military
    Reconstruction Acts of 1867 to divide the South into five military
    districts.

39. North: growing industry, immigration, high tariffs, free labor, growth
    of Republican Party, permanency of the Union; South: slave labor,
    plantation economy, low tariffs, opposition to abolition, states’ rights.

40. B The country President Truman describes in the third paragraph is
    communist Russia, and he contrasts it with the United States.

41. A The United States followed a policy of containment by helping stop
    the spread of communism. This is mentioned in the fourth paragraph.

42. C This speech was made in 1947, after the end of WWII. The Marshall
    Plan was enacted in 1948 to rebuild war-torn countries, improve their
    economies, and prevent the spread of Communism.

43. D Harding is establishing “a policy of noninvolvement” known as
    isolationism.

44. B This address was made in 1921, so he must be referring to World
    War I.

45. C The influence of the United Nations is debated because many
    believe the United States pays too much of the UN’s budget and that
   the UN should not dictate American foreign policy.

46. B All of the events listed deal with civil rights.

47. C According to the timeline, Letter from a Birmingham Jail was
    written to argue that “African Americans have a right to push for
    equality now.” One can infer that this was in response to critics arguing
    that the movement should go slowly.

48. A Freedom Summer was a voter registration drive, so that likely
    contributed to Congress passing the Voting Rights Act.

49. B The Berlin Airlift was a response to the Soviet blockade of West
    Berlin. Western allied nations organized air-drop delivery of supplies
    to the people of West Berlin.

50. C This is known as the Holocaust, or Shoah.

51. A Israel was founded to be a safe place for Jewish people, particularly
    ones who had been displaced by World War II.

52. Segregation: Jim Crow laws, Plessy v. Ferguson, Ku Klux Klan;
    Desegregation: Brown v. Board of Education, Civil Rights Act of 1964,
    NAACP

53. Illinois The medium shade of gray represents states in which women
    could vote for president prior to the passing of the Nineteenth
    Amendment. Only Choice A (Illinois) is one of those states.

54. C Most of the states that had no voting rights for women until the
    passing of the Nineteenth Amendment (those shaded black) are in the
    Southeast.

55. A Most of the laws relate to the poor and minority groups.

56. D In order to staff all these programs, the size of the federal
    government must have increased.
57. B Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, though
    the Balkan regions were largely Slavic. Tensions grew due to the
    Balkans’ desire for autonomy.

58. A This conflict is over weapons, and Britain and Germany were both
    major powers.

59. C Nations that conquered additional territories could feel more
    powerful, so their imperialism fed further national pride, which
    increased the desire for even larger empires.

60. First, Solidarity candidates win elections in Poland; second, the Berlin
    wall is torn down; third, Boris Yeltsin is elected president of Russia;
    fourth, Estonia declares independence; fifth, Coup against Gorbachev
    is defeated.

61. D Because the Cold War was primarily a conflict between the United
    States and the Soviet Union, the dissolution of the Soviet Union ended
    it.

62. Germany; the United States or the Soviet Union

63. A The last line of the chart says that Wilson was unsuccessful in
    getting the United States to join the League of Nations.

64. D Russia experienced a revolution in 1917 that completely changed its
    style of government from a monarchy to a communist government.

65. C Germany had lost a lot of its former territory and was forced to pay
    reparations.

66. Germany: Hitler, Holocaust, invaded Soviet Union, Nazism; Italy:
    Fascism, Mussolini, invaded Ethiopia; Soviet Union: U.S. ally in
    WWII, Stalin, Communism

67. totalitarian
68. C The GI Bill was intended to provide returning veterans with aid for
    education and housing.

69. B The Trail of Tears was the forced removal of Native American tribes
    from their lands.

70. Texas—all the cattle drives shown originate in Texas.

71. D Journalists who attacked industry leaders and institutions as corrupt
    were called “muckrakers.”

72. A The passage describes sweatshops.

73. C The Louisiana Purchase nearly doubled the size of the United States
    at that time.

74. D The period from 1930–1932 shows a significant drop.

75. C As U.S. settlers moved west, Native Americans were pushed out of
    their lands. The map shows a trend of forced removals going from east
    to west.


Chapter 3: Economics
1. B A toll road is a place where the seller of a service meets with buyers.

2. Marina’s income is commission, which is based solely on sales.

3. Donna’s income is a combination of an hourly wage, which is a
    guaranteed base salary, plus a productivity bonus, which is an incentive
    based on output.

4. Gerald works full time for a set weekly salary.

5. D Having 55+ companies allows for a lot of competition.
6. A The web search market has 2 companies that control 87% of the
    market.

7. oligopolies—the cell phone supplier and the auto manufacturing
    markets both have limited competition, so they are oligopolies.

8. B The Federal Trade Commission must ensure competition.

9. A Profit and interest are both extra amounts of money over the base
    amount.

10. B A is price.

11. C B is quantity.

12. D D is supply.

13. equilibrium price

14. D A market is where a supplier (the job seeker) and a buyer (the
    employer) meet.

15. B Entrepreneurship involves taking risk for reward.

16. D A tariff is a tax paid on a class of import or export. This is like a
    sales tax.

17. 2 Physical capital includes machinery.

18. 1 Labor is human physical or mental effort.

19. D Antitrust means preventing monopolies.

20. Graph 1 shows a basic supply curve.

21. Graph 3 shows increased production.

22. Graph 6 shows the effect of reduced price on a demand curve.
23. D Capital investment typically refers to acquisition of machinery or
    manufacturing plants that increase productivity.

24. C Only choice C involves humans.

25. D Wants + limited resources result in scarcity.

26. D Wants + limited resources result in scarcity.

27. installment credit

28. C Finance charges also include any fees on the loan or credit
    agreement.

29. Graph 3 shows the effect of lowering tariffs on a supply curve.

30. Graph 2 shows the effect of lowering tariffs on a demand curve.

31. B Barriers to entry are low in the dry-cleaning market. There is very
    little expensive equipment needed and little to no training required for
    employees.

32. C The law of supply states that supply increases as prices increases.

33. B The diagram illustrates a circular flow of goods and services.

34. C Households own the factors of production (land, labor, and capital).

35. A The government also provides services and purchases factors.

36. D The government increased spending to create jobs and stimulate the
    economy.

37. A The steam engine was a new source of power that increased
    productivity.

38. C The Federal Reserve Board oversees U.S. monetary policy.

39. B Traditional economies use resources efficiently.
40. C Command economies have low productivity and efficiency.

41. D The U.S. has a mixed economy.

42. 3 Drawing 3 shows a cost (pollution) being imposed on others by a
    factory’s behavior.

43. B Government can enact workplace health and safety laws to protect
    workers when a market may not do so on its own.

44. C In a particular area, sports teams have a monopoly. For example, a
    city typically has only one professional football team.

45. A There are many, many types of entertainment, so a sports team is
    just a small part of the free competition there.

46. B The chart says that the Federal Open Market Committee sets
    national monetary policy.

47. D The second point listed in the box for the Federal Reserve Banks
    says that they regulate banking.

48. A Comparative advantage is the ability to carry out one economic
    activity more efficiently than another.

49. C Specialization is the practice of each party producing the goods and
    services that it is best at.

50. D The Truth in Lending Act says what information lenders must
    disclose.

51. A The Equal Credit Opportunity Act bans discrimination.

52. C Consumer protection laws, much like health and safety laws, address
    market failures.

53. B Opportunity cost is potential gain that is lost by choosing one
    alternative rather than another.
54. 2009 The Consumer Price Index rose most sharply between 2009 and
    2010.

55. 2008 There is a huge drop in the Consumer Price Index after 2008.

56. B Consumer Price Index shows inflation and deflation.

57. B The U.S. is at 1.6% and China is at 7.7%. 7.7 ÷ 1.6 = 4.81.

58. A The largest growth in GDP is for China, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, and
    India. These are all newly industrialized nations.

59. B The lowest part of the graph after 2001 is around January 2007.

60. C The sharpest rise on the graph is just after January 2009.

61. D Each country has largely different imports and exports, which shows
    that their economies are specialized and that they depend upon each
    other.

62. B Japan exports no energy products and imports petroleum, coal, and
    natural gas.

63. A People are only counted as unemployed if they have actively looked
    for work in the last 4 weeks. If they stopped looking for work, even
    though they are still unemployed, they are not counted.

64. A The chart shows the three categories of bank functions.

65. C Banks pay interest to attract depositors.

66. D Economic stimulation is primarily done through lending.

67. B Two causes are listed: desire for greater share of Asian trade and
    desire for personal wealth.

68. D Both are insured, so risk is low.
69. A Comparing the columns for risk and reward shows that greater risk
    correlates with greater potential for reward.

70. B The idea that the universe can be understood and the development of
    the scientific method led to development of new technology that fueled
    the Industrial Revolution.

71. A The development of political economy is part of the Enlightenment,
    which was an emphasis on the application of reason and observation.

72. D Taxation reduces income that could be spent on consumer goods and
    services.

73. C The box that lists “Economic Effects in Germany” shows that the
    reparations Germany was supposed to pay were very difficult for the
    country to accomplish.

74. A Industrialization had grown in the North during the war and was able
    to continue growing after victory.

75. D Oversupply led to price reduction.


Chapter 4: Geography and the World
1. B Mexico is the only choice that meets the definition. It has a common
    government and laws.

2. D The United States does not have a community of ethnicity, language,
    or religion.

3. C Europe is expected to decline from 0.74 billion to 0.71 billion.

4. B Africa is expected to grow from 1.11 billion to 2.39 billion, an
    increase of more than double.

5. A With a population that doubles, Africa will have employment
    challenges. Europe may have an excess of workers because its
   population is expected to decline.

6. D The footnote for the chart shows that Organisation for Economic
    Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries include “most of the
    major world industrial powers.”

7. B In 2030, Asia is expected to consume 290 quadrillion Btus (British
    thermal units); and OECD countries, 269 quadrillion Btus.

8. B The OECD countries are already industrialized, so their rate of energy
    use is relatively stable. Many of the non-OECD countries are in the
    process of industrialization, so their rate of energy use is growing.

9. C Sustainability means using resources responsibly so that they are not
    completely depleted.

10. A A map’s title explains what the map is about.

11. B Feature B is the map’s scale.

12. C Each of the four purposes listed is about peace and cooperation
    between nations.

13. D The second goal involves equal rights and self-determination. That
    justifies supporting independence.

14. A A global positioning system (GPS) shows location.

15. B Immigration is the movement of people into a place.

16. D Building a dam is a human activity to manipulate the environment.

17. A The first sentence in the box says that latitude and longitude are
    used to determine specific (absolute) location.

18. D The globe on the left shows Eastern and Western Hemispheres. The
    left side of that globe is the Western Hemisphere, and it includes North
    and South America.
19. B Productive working age would be people between 16 and 64 years
    old. This is shown by the black bars. The shortest of these lines is for
    Africa.

20. C The darker gray shows the percentage of the population over the age
    of 65. Those bars are tallest for Europe and North America, so that
    issue would be more important there.

21. B A geographic information system (GIS) is a computer mapping
    system, so it would be most likely to be used on a smartphone mapping
    app.

22. A The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is concerned with the
    health of the environment, and hydrography is the study of bodies of
    water, so the EPA would most likely be interested in the hydrography
    of a region.

23. B OECD countries are shown in light gray. The growth of emissions
    between 2012 and 2040 is projected to increase only slightly,
    remaining below 15 billion metric tons.

24. C Non-OECD countries are shown in black. In 1990, carbon dioxide
    emissions are just below 10 billion metric tons. In 2040, they are
    projected to be over 30 billion metric tons (more than triple the
    amount in 1990).

25. A Scientists have shown that carbon emissions contribute to climate
    change.

26. C A carbon footprint is the amount of carbon emissions of a person,
    household, company, country, and so on.

27. C A physical map shows major landforms and bodies of water.

28. B An economic map shows natural resources such as oil and natural
    gas.
29. D In the examples section for a thematic map, a historical map is the
    first listed.

30. D Fossil fuel supply is 64.11 quadrillion Btus, and consumption is
    79.79 quadrillion Btus.

31. C In order to consume more than the supply, extra imports are needed.

32. exported At the top of the chart, exports of 11.80 quadrillion Btus are
    shown. This accounts for the difference in supply and consumption.

33. B Hydroelectric power is renewable since it is power provided by the
    flow of water through a dam.

34 A Absolute location is the location of a place based on a fixed point on
   earth. A street address meets this definition.

35. C Relative location gives the location of a point or place in relation to
    another point or place. Choice C does this.

36. population density

37. Formal: Africa, court’s jurisdiction, congressional district; Functional:
    cities an airline flies to, utility’s service area, pizza delivery area;
    Perceptual: downtown, Midwest

38. B Cultural regions share common characteristics such as language,
    religion, and customs. Latin America was settled by similar ethnic
    groups, has similar Romance languages, and has a majority religion
    (Catholic).

39. C The United States had 43 million and Russia had 13 million, a
    difference of 30 million.

40. B Economic incentives provide the biggest pull factors for immigrants.

41. B Except for Mexico and the United Kingdom, all the countries listed
    are in Asia.
42. B Mexico receives 55 billion and India receives 23 billion, a difference
    of 32 billion.

43. A Either Chinese emigrants earn more, or they save more to send
    home.

44. D Fossil fuels take millions of years to form, so they are not
    considered renewable.

45. A Cultural diffusion is the spread or blending of different ideas,
    beliefs, and innovations from one group to another. This includes
    styles of cooking and popular foods.

46. B A metropolitan area includes a city and its surrounding suburban
    areas.

47. C Building a canal alters the environment.

48. A Urbanization is nearly always driven by economic opportunities
    being more available in a city.

49. C The map separates regions by physical characteristics and human
    characteristics.

50. C All three regions’ boxes list Latinos.

51. B The box for the Northeast lists “information industries” and
    “finance.”

52. A Assimilation is the process of adapting to the dominant culture.

53. A The two-dimensional nature of maps makes them more flexible in
    size, format, and types of information that can be presented.

54. C Maps are two-dimensional, and the Earth is not.

55. B Terrace farming is a type of technology used to cultivate sloping,
    hilly, or mountainous terrain.
56. D Building a Hindu temple in California is an example of cultural
    diffusion of religion.

57. C An empire is an extensive group of states or countries under a single
    supreme authority and can reach all around the world.

58. A A person seeking asylum to flee persecution was likely in a minority
    population in his or her home country.

59. D Diasporas are generally involuntary, and the slave trade is an
    example of that.

60. B Chain migration could easily create an ethnic community because
    each subsequent migrant has a relationship with the person or people
    who emigrated before.

61. D Five of the 10 countries listed are in Southwest Asia: Saudi Arabia,
    Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and UAE.

62. D Iraq’s exports are closest to its production, so it is not using as much
    as the other countries listed.

63. A The United States does not have significant oil reserves, so it can be
    concluded that it uses most of what it produces.

64. B A country’s standard of living is often measured by the United
    Nations’ Human Development Index, which includes life expectancy at
    birth, education, and income per capita.

65. C A blending of cultures is cultural diffusion.

66. A Too much specialization leaves a country vulnerable to a loss of
    demand or to price deflation.

67. B Less-developed regions grew the most in every period and reached
    the highest peak from 1950–1970.
68. A Less-developed regions grew the most in every period, but that
    growth is steadily decreasing.

69. C Urbanization typically grows with industrial development, so more
    developed countries are likely already urbanized.

70. B The spread of an infectious disease is most dependent on the
    movement of infected people. International travel increases that
    movement to a much wider area.

71. C Asia has the largest number of different religions listed.

72. B Diversity of religion is a type of cultural diffusion.

73. A $10,380 is closest to $14,210, the gross national income per capita
    of the world.

74. D Least developed countries will also have low gross national income
    per capita. The lowest listed is Sub-Saharan Africa.

75. A Switching from a gas-powered car to a bicycle (0 emission) reduces
    carbon emissions more than any other change listed.
                              POSTTEST

                       Social Studies
40 questions | 70 minutes

This Posttest is intended to give you an idea of how ready you are to take
the real GED® Social Studies Test. Try to answer every question, in a quiet
area and with enough time so that you are free from distractions. The usual
time allotted for the test is 70 minutes. Remember that it is more
important to think about every question than it is to finish ahead of time.
Answers and explanations are at the end of the Posttest.

 1. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)
Questions 2–3 are based on the following timeline:




 2. What is the best explanation for the rapid sequence of declarations of
    war in 1914?
    A. imperialist ambitions of European states
    B. communist expansionism
    C. conflicting sets of alliances
    D. German aggression

 3. What led most directly to the U.S. decision to enter the war?
    A. the U.S. alliance with Britain
    B. outrage over the invasion of Belgium
    C. fear that the Bolshevik Revolution would spread
    D. resumption of German submarine attacks

Questions 4–5 are based on the following chart:




 4. Why do both the state and federal governments share such powers as
    the power to enact laws, enforce laws, and impose taxes?
    A. These are powers all governments must have.
    B. Each level must approve the actions of the other.
    C. Congress passed legislation granting these powers.
    D. All governments aim to enhance their own power.

 5. Laws passed by Congress regarding education policy are often
    controversial. Why is that so?
    A. The laws violate the states’ right to establish local governments.
    B. Education is supposed to be a state concern.
    C. The laws interfere with the states’ ability to regulate commerce.
    D. Congress imposes rules but does not provide any funds.
Question 6 is based on the following quotation:

“The Congress shall have the power . . . To make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.”

                                  —U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8

 6. Why is this clause, the “necessary and proper” clause, sometimes
    called the “elastic clause”?
    A. Congress has used it when declaring war.
    B. Congress has used it when impeaching three presidents.
    C. Congress has used it to become involved in a wide range of issues.
    D. When Congress stretches its power too much, it is stung by a public
       backlash.

Questions 7–8 are based on the following chart:

Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production, Selected States, 2009
7. Which state has the most pronounced comparative advantage in both
   crude oil and natural gas production?
  A. Alaska
  B. California
  C. Texas
  D. Wyoming

8. Which state has the second lowest natural gas production?
  A. Kansas
  B. Alaska
  C. California
  D. Wyoming
 9. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
                ®
   the real GED test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
   into the correct box.)




Questions 10–11 are based on the following passage:
The Constitution of the United States contains a preamble and seven
articles that describe the way the government is structured and how it
operates. The first three articles establish the three branches of
government and their powers: Legislative (Congress), Executive (office of
the President), and Judicial (Federal court system). A system of checks
and balances prevents any one of these separate powers from becoming
dominant. Articles four through seven describe the relationship of the
states to the Federal Government, establish the Constitution as the
supreme law of the land, and define the amendment and ratification
processes.
    Article I assigns the responsibility for making laws to the Legislative
Branch (Congress). Congress is divided into two parts, or “Houses,” the
House of Representatives and the Senate. The bicameral Congress was a
compromise between the large states, which wanted representation based
on population, and the small ones, which wanted the states to have equal
representation.
    Article II details the Executive Branch and the offices of the President
and Vice President. It lays down rules for electing the President (through
the Electoral College), eligibility (must be a natural-born citizen at least
35 years old), and term length. The 12th and 25th Amendments modified
some of these rules.
    Article III establishes the Judicial Branch with the U.S. Supreme Court
as the federal court system’s highest court. It specifies that Federal judges
be appointed for life unless they commit a serious crime. This article is
shorter than Articles I and II. The Federal Convention left much of the
work of planning the court system to the First Congress. The 1789
Judiciary Act created the three-tiered court system in place today.
   Article IV outlines states’ powers in relationship to each other. States
have the authority to create and enforce their own laws but must respect
and help enforce the laws of other states. Congress may pass Federal laws
regarding how states honor other states’ laws and records.
    Article V explains the amendment process, which is different and more
difficult than the process for making laws. When two-thirds of the Senate
and two-thirds of the House of Representatives vote to change the
Constitution, an amendment goes to the state legislatures for a vote.
Alternatively, two-thirds of the state legislatures can submit an application
to Congress, and then Congress calls a national convention at which states
propose amendments. Three-fourths of the state legislatures or state
conventions must vote in favor of an amendment to ratify it.
    Article VI states that Federal law is supreme, or higher than, state and
local laws. This means that if a state law conflicts with a Federal law,
Federal law takes precedence.
    Article VII describes the ratification process for the Constitution. It
called for special state ratifying conventions. Nine states were required to
enact the Constitution. Rhode Island became the 13th state to ratify the
Constitution in 1790.
                                       Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
 [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/constitution/what-does-
                                                                  it-say]

10. Which section of the Constitution contains the general procedures by
    which a bill becomes a law?
    A. Article I
    B. Article II
    C. Article III
    D. Article V

11. Which article of the Constitution would contain the following passage?
“Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts,
Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress
may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.”
    A. Article IV
    B. Article V
    C. Article VI
    D. Article VII

Questions 12–13 are based on the following chart:
The following sentence contains a blank marked                       .
Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will appear
in the blank.)

12. Based on the information in the chart, it can be inferred that the impact
    of banks’ lending money is called the multiplier effect because it
    multiplies________________________.
13. The percentage of deposits that banks must hold in reserve is set by the
    Federal Reserve. What would be the effect if the Fed increased that
    percentage?
    A. Banks’ deposits would increase.
    B. Banks’ profits would also increase.
    C. Banks would have less money to lend.
    D. Banks would compete more aggressively for deposits.

Questions 14–15 are based on the following map:




    Source: U.S. Geological Survey.

14. Based on the map, which state is most likely to experience an
    earthquake? Write your answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

15. Which area or areas in the eastern half of the nation have the most
    unstable fault patterns, making them most likely to experience
   earthquakes?
    A. Gulf Coast and Great Lakes regions
    B. central Mississippi River Valley and Appalachian Mountains
    C. New England coast and Ohio River Valley
    D. southeast Atlantic coast and Great Plains

Questions 16–18 are based on the following chart:

Ten Largest U.S. Cities, 1900-2010




16. What regions dominate the city listings in 1900 and 1930?
    A. Atlantic and Pacific Coasts
    B. Northeast and Midwest
    C. South and West
    D. Southwest and Northeast

17. In which two states are the majority of major cities in 2010?
    A. California and Texas
    B. California and Arizona
    C. New York and California
    D. Texas and New York

18. What general trend can be seen in the changes in the lists of the
    country’s major cities over the period of time shown?
    A. growth of population across all regions
    B. the growing dominance of the Northeast
    C. population shift to the South and West
    D. population growth on the Gulf Coast and in Texas

Questions 19–21 are based on the following chart:

Major Supreme Court Decisions under Chief Justice John Marshall




19. In which decision did the Marshall Court establish the power of
    judicial review?
    A. Gibbons v. Ogden
    B. Marbury v. Madison
    C. McCullough v. Maryland
    D. Worcester v. Georgia

20. Read the following passage from one of the Marshall Court’s
    decisions.
“The framers of our Constitution foresaw this state of things and provided
for it by declaring the supremacy not only of itself but of the laws made in
pursuance of it. The nullity of any act inconsistent with the Constitution is
produced by the declaration that the Constitution is supreme law. The
appropriate application of that part of the clause which confers the same
supremacy on laws and treaties is to such acts of the state legislatures as
do not transcend their powers, but though enacted in the execution of
acknowledged state powers, interfere with, or are contrary to, the laws of
Congress, made in pursuance of the Constitution or some treaty made
under the authority of the United States. In every such case, the act of
Congress or the treaty is supreme; and the law of the state, though enacted
in the exercise of powers not controverted, must yield to it. . . .”

The Court could use this argument to support its decision in which case?
    A. Barron v. Baltimore
    B. Dartmouth College v. Woodward
    C. Gibbons v. Ogden
    D. Marbury v. Madison

21. In which decision did the Court give a narrow interpretation of the
    applicability of the Constitution?
    A. Barron v. Baltimore
    B. Cohens v. Virginia
    C. Fletcher v. Peck
    D. Worcester v. Georgia

Questions 22–24 are based on the following graphs. (Note: On the real
GED® test, you will click on the box you want to indicate.)
22. Indicate the graph that shows a simple demand curve.
    __________________________________

23. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on supply of increased
    government regulation.
    __________________________________

24. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on demand in a local market of
    increased employment as a result of the location of a new factory in
    that market.
    __________________________________

25. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)




26. Which pair correctly lists the president and a major achievement?
    A. Thomas Jefferson and the Louisiana Purchase
    B. William McKinley and Reconstruction
    C. Franklin D. Roosevelt and the building of the Panama Canal
    D. Bill Clinton and the end of the Cold War

27. Scientists who warn of a connection between climate change and
    human actions generally point to what practice as the central cause of
    the problem?
    A. burning of fossil fuels
    B. deforestation
    C. pollution
    D. waste disposal

28. Which of the following are most cited as major problems resulting
    from climate change?
    A. deforestation and desertification
    B. increased risk of infectious disease and aging population
    C. more extreme weather and rising sea levels
    D. urban overcrowding and crime

29. Which totalitarian leader launched World War II and caused the death
    of millions of civilians, including six million Jews, in the Holocaust?
    A. Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany
    B. Benito Mussolini of Fascist Italy
    C. Napoleon Bonaparte of France
    D. Joseph Stalin of the Soviet Union

30. Widespread suffering resulting from what event helped bring about
    Adolf Hitler’s rise to power?
    A. French Revolution
    B. Great Depression
    C. Industrial Revolution
    D. Russian Revolution

Questions 31–32 are based on the following chart:
31. What is the relationship of income to educational attainment for men
    and women?
    A. Income rises with education for men but not for women.
    B. Income rises with education at the same rate for men and women.
    C. Income rises with education for men and women.
    D. Income rises with education for women but not for men.

32. What economic principle is demonstrated by this relationship?
    A. the benefit of investing in human capital
    B. the law of supply and demand
    C. the law of diminishing returns
    D. the reason governments address externalities

Questions 33–35 are based on the following chart:

Religious Affiliation in Southeast Asia
33. Which country shows the greatest religious diversity?
    A. Burma
    B. Cambodia
    C. Philippines
    D. Singapore

34. Religious affiliation in which country reflects the effects of cultural
    diffusion as a result of trade with Southwest Asia?
    A. Burma
    B. Indonesia
    C. Singapore
    D. Vietnam

35. Religious affiliation in which country strongly reflects the effects of
    cultural diffusion as a result of European colonialism?
    A. Burma
    B. Indonesia
    C. Philippines
    D. Singapore

Questions 36–38 are based on the following timeline:
36. Which cases decided by the Warren Court involved First Amendment
    rights?
    A. Baker v. Carr and Reynolds v. Sims
    B. Engel v. Vitale and Tinker v. Des Moines
    C. Griswold v. Connecticut and Loving v. Virginia
    D. Miranda v. Arizona and Escobedo v. Illinois

37. What area of law was a common subject of the decisions in Mapp v.
    Ohio, Gideon v. Wainwright, Escobedo v. Illinois, and Miranda v.
    Arizona?
    A. due process in criminal cases
    B. equal rights
    C. equal representation
    D. federal versus state power
38. Read the following quotation from one of the decisions of the Warren
    Court:
“The right to be heard would be, in many cases, of little avail if it did not
comprehend the right to be heard by counsel. Even the intelligent and
educated layman has small and sometimes no skill in the science of law. If
charged with crime, he is incapable, generally, of determining for himself
whether the indictment is good or bad. He is unfamiliar with the rules of
evidence. Left without the aid of counsel, he may be put on trial without a
proper charge, and convicted upon incompetent evidence, or evidence
irrelevant to the issue or otherwise inadmissible. He lacks both the skill
and knowledge adequately to prepare his defense, even though he have a
perfect one. He requires the guiding hand of counsel at every step in the
proceedings against him. Without it, though he be not guilty, he faces the
danger of conviction because he does not know how to establish his
innocence.”
     In which case was the Court most likely to use these words to explain
        its decision?
     A. Escobedo v. Illinois
     B. Gideon v. Wainwright
     C. Mapp v. Ohio
     D. Miranda v. Arizona

39. Which women were pioneers in the women’s suffrage movement?
    A. Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem
    B. Geraldine Ferraro, Sarah Palin, and Hillary Clinton
    C. Eleanor Roosevelt and Frances Perkins
    D. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Carrie Chapman
       Catt

Question 40 is based on the following information:
  Excerpt from President Johnson’s Speech on the
               Vietnam War (1965)
“North Viet-Nam has attacked the independent nation of South Viet-Nam.
Its object is total conquest . . .

“Over this war—and all Asia—is another reality: the deepening shadow of
Communist China. The rulers in Hanoi are urged on by Peking. This is a
regime which has destroyed freedom in Tibet, which has attacked India,
and has been condemned by the United Nations for aggression in Korea. It
is a nation which is helping the forces of violence in almost every
continent. The contest in Viet-Nam is part of a wider pattern of aggressive
purposes.”

40. Which of the following best states President Johnson’s reason for
    seeking to expand U.S. efforts in Vietnam?
    A. He wants to make Vietnam a U.S. protectorate.
    B. He wants to secure natural resources in Vietnam.
    C. He wants to honor U.S. treaty obligations to India.
    D. He wants to keep world order and prevent the spread of
       communism.




           THIS IS THE END OF THE SOCIAL STUDIES POSTTEST.


Answers and Explanations
1. House: two-year term, Speaker presides, representation based on
    population, votes to impeach; Senate: tries impeachments, equal
    representation per state, six-year term, vice president presides.

2. C There were numerous conflicting alliances and treaties that required
    allies to defend each other.

3. D In April, the United States declared war. Just before that, in February,
    German submarines resumed attacks.

4. A Any government must be able to enact and enforce laws and levy
    taxes.

5. B “Run public schools” is listed under Reserved (State) Powers.

6. C It is called the “elastic clause” because it allows Congress to stretch
    its powers like elastic.

7. C Texas is highest in both categories.

8. A Kansas has the second lowest (the lowest is California) with 354
    billion cubic feet.
9. Department of Health and Human Services: Food and Drug
    Administration, National Institutes of Health, Administration for
    Children and Families; Department of Labor: Wage and Hour Division,
    Occupational Safety & Health Administration; Department of the
    Interior: Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, U.S.
    Fish and Wildlife Service

10. A Article I concerns the legislative branch, which makes laws.

11. A Article IV covers recognition of states’ laws.

12. the amount The loans “multiply” the
    of money amount of money in
    in circulation circulation.

13. C If the percentage reserved were higher, the percent loaned would be
    lower.

14. California California had the most major earthquakes in this period,
    so is most likely to have another.

15. B The biggest concentration of major earthquakes in the eastern half of
    the country is near St. Louis, Missouri, in the central Mississippi River
    Valley. The Appalachian Mountains are another area of high
    concentration.

16. B New York and Philadelphia in the Northeast and Chicago in the
    Midwest were the largest three cities in 1900 and 1930.

17. A Texas and California each have three of the top 10.

18. C Cities in the Northeast and Midwest have lost rank to cities in the
    Southwest and West.

19. B Marbury v. Madison established the power of courts to determine
    whether a federal law was constitutional.
20. C Gibbons v. Ogden established the supremacy of Congress over the
    states in regulating commerce.

21. A Barron v. Baltimore limited the applicability of the Bill of Rights.

22. Graph 2 shows a simple demand curve.

23. Graph 5 shows how increased regulation would affect supply.

24. Graph 4 shows the effect new jobs would have on a demand curve for
    employment.

25. Civil rights movement: Civil Rights Act of 1964, Brown v. Board of
    Education, desegregation, Martin Luther King Jr.; Reconstruction:
    Fourteenth Amendment, abolition, Freedmen’s Bureau, Andrew
    Johnson

26. A Thomas Jefferson was president when the Louisiana Purchase was
    made.

27. A The burning of fossil fuels, which emits carbon dioxide and other
    greenhouse gases, contributes to climate change.

28. C The melting of ice near the poles causes sea levels to rise. This and
    extreme weather events are major problems for humans.

29. A Adolf Hitler led Germany into WWII and perpetrated the Holocaust.

30. B WWI destroyed Germany’s economy, and the Great Depression hit
    Germany very hard, ending the Weimar Republic. Hitler and the Nazi
    Party rose to power, promising a new, strong Germany.

31. C Income rises steadily with greater education, for both men and
    women.

32. A Education is a type of investment in human capital.

33. D Singapore has several major religions.
34. B Hinduism in Indonesia is a result of cultural diffusion from India.

35. C Roman Catholicism was brought to the Philippines by Spanish
    missionaries and colonists.

36. B Engel v. Vitale and Tinker v. Des Moines both involved the First
    Amendment right to free speech.

37. A Each of those cases involved the rights of the accused and due
    process of law.

38. B Gideon v. Wainwright involved the right to legal counsel.

39. D Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Carrie Chapman Catt
    all were leaders in the women’s suffrage movement.

40. D Johnson warns about communist China’s aggression and says the
    United States must fight for other nations’ self-determinations to
    ensure our own continuing freedom.


Evaluation Chart
Circle the number of each question that you missed. To the right of the
numbers below, you will find the titles of the chapters that cover the skills
you need to solve the problems. More question numbers circled in any row
means more attention is needed to sharpen those skills for the GED® Test.




If you find you need instruction or more practice before you are ready to
take the GED® test, remember that we offer several excellent options:
McGraw-Hill Education Preparation for the GED® Test: This book
contains a complete test preparation program with intensive review and
practice for the topics tested on the GED®.
McGraw-Hill Education Pre-GED®: This book is a beginner’s guide for
students who need to develop a solid foundation or refresh basic skills
before they embark on formal preparation for the GED® test.
McGraw-Hill Education Short Course for the GED®: This book provides a
concise review of all the essential topics on the GED®, with numerous
additional practice questions.
                             Glossary

Important GED® Social Studies Terms
Abolitionists: people who thought that slavery was wrong and should not
be allowed in any state
Amendments: changes or additions to the U.S. Constitution
Bankruptcy: legal process in which people or entities who cannot repay
creditors may seek relief from some or all of their debts
Bill of Rights: the first ten amendments to the U.S. Constitution; they
place restrictions on the government’s power and guarantee certain rights
and civil liberties to the citizens
Bond: a loan to a company or government that pays the investor a fixed
rate of return over a specific length of time
Cabinet: a group whose role is to advise the president on subjects related
to each member’s office; includes Vice President, Attorney General, and
the heads of the executive departments
Capital: assets used to finance a business, including money, buildings, or
equipment
Civil Rights movement: mass protest movement beginning in 1954
against racial segregation and discrimination in the United States
Climate: the pattern of weather in a particular region, including prevailing
winds, temperatures, and the amount and type of precipitation, averaged
over time
Cold War: the period from 1945 to 1990 in which Soviet countries and the
United States and its allies existed in a state of political hostility
Colonialism: policy of a country seeking to extend its authority over other
people or territories
Comparative advantage: greater profit for a business that can produce a
good at a lower cost than any other business can
Conservatism: political and social philosophy promoting traditional
social institutions
Credit: an arrangement that allows consumers to finance a purchase
without having to pay the total cost at the time the purchase is made
Cultural diffusion: the spread of cultural ideas to new groups of people
Debt: an amount of money borrowed by one party (the debtor) from
another party (the creditor)
Declaration of Independence: document in which the 13 American
colonies declared independence from England and stated principles for
forming their new government
Deflation: a general reduction of prices in an economy
Demand: the amount of an item that consumers wish to purchase
Democracy: type of government in which citizens exercise power, either
directly or through representatives
Diaspora: the scattering of groups of people that have been dispersed
outside of their homelands either by choice or involuntarily
Dictatorship: a type of government in which a single leader exercises
absolute power over nearly every aspect of life in a country, including
political, social, and economic issues
Dust Bowl: a nickname given to the Southern Plains region of the United
States, which suffered severe dust storms during a long period of drought
in the 1930s
Economics: study of the continuous exchange of goods, services, and
resources in society
Ecosystem: the ongoing interaction between the land, climate, and living
organisms in a particular location
Elastic clause: allows the U.S. Congress to stretch its powers to fit
specific situations as needed
Electoral College: formal body of electors that actually elects the
president of the United States
Embargo: official ban on commercial activity with another country in
order to apply pressure
Emigrate: to leave a country in order to settle in another place
Enlightenment: 18th-century period in which philosophers applied the
scientific process of critical thinking to social and political problems
Entrepreneurship: the quality of being an entrepreneur, someone who
owns and manages a business and therefore shoulders the risk and effort
involved in running that business
Equilibrium: in economics, the price at which supply and demand for an
item are balanced
Export: selling goods and services produced in the home country to other
markets
Fascism: nationalistic political philosophy that stands for a centralized
autocratic government led by a dictator, economic and social
regimentation, and forcible suppression of opposition
Federalism: the principle of separation of powers and functions between
the federal government and the governments of the states
Fertile Crescent: area in present-day Iraq, Syria, and Egypt that was
home to early civilizations
Feudalism: social system in which people work and fight for nobles who
give them protection and land; common in medieval Europe
Fiscal policy: to the way in which government collects and spends tax
revenues
GI Bill: 1944 bill that provided benefits to veterans to help them
transition back into civilian life
Global warming: the rising average temperature of Earth’s climate
system
Great Depression: a serious worldwide economic depression that began
with the crash of the U.S. stock market in October 1929 and lasted through
most of the 1930s
Great Society: U.S. President Johnson’s plan to eliminate poverty
Gross domestic product (GDP): the total dollar value of all the goods
and services produced by a country over a specific time period
Holocaust: Nazi racial persecution and genocide of European Jews during
WWII
Immigrate: to move into a country, usually to establish permanent
residence
Import: goods and services brought into the home country from an
exterior source
Industrial Revolution: 18th-century period transition from rural, agrarian
economies to urban economies dominated by industry and machine
manufacturing
Inflation: a general, ongoing rise in the prices of goods and services
Interest: fee paid for the privilege of borrowing money, typically given as
a percentage rate
Interest groups: groups of people who share a common interest or
concern who come together to influence the government
Investment: item that is purchased in the hope that it will become more
valuable in the future
Iron Curtain: nickname for the political border between Western and
Eastern Europe from the late 1940s until 1989
Judicial review: the responsibility of the U.S. Supreme Court to
determine whether laws are constitutional
Labor: workers and the work they do, both mental and physical
Latitude and longitude: a geographic coordinate system through which
the position or location of any place on Earth’s surface can be determined
League of Nations: an international organization formed after WWI to
settle differences between nations through diplomacy rather than war
Liberalism: political and moral philosophy based on constitutional
government, equality of legal rights, and free enterprise
Macroeconomics: the study of the overall workings of a national
economy and of its relationship to international markets
Magna Carta: 1215 English document that established key rights, such as
the right to a representative government with powers over taxation, the
right to trial by jury, and the right to due process in legal matters;
influenced Declaration of Independence
Manifest destiny: the belief that the United States was “destined” to
occupy the entire North American continent, from the Atlantic Ocean to
the Pacific Ocean
Market: any place where the seller of a particular good or service can
meet with buyers
Marshall Plan: a plan to help rebuild Europe after WWII in order to
provide political stability and help the world economy
Marxism: philosophy developed by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels that
states that the working class should overthrow the capitalist system
through an international revolution
Microeconomics: the study of individual markets
Migration: movement of large numbers of people from one country,
place, or region to another
Monarchy: a political system in which power is held by a king, a queen,
an emperor, or an empress who generally rules until the end of his or her
life and then passes leadership on to his or her heirs
Monetary policy: relates to the supply of money, which is controlled by
factors such as interest rates and reserve requirements for banks
Monopoly: when a seller is the only one to offer a certain good or service
Monroe Doctrine: U.S. foreign policy to resist any effort by European
countries to attack or establish new colonies in North or South America
and to remain neutral in any European conflicts; introduced the United
States as a player in world politics
Nationalism: pride in one’s ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage, often
to the exclusion or detriment of the interests of others
NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization): a military alliance
between the United States and its European allies to counter the Soviet
threat
Natural resources: materials or substances occurring in nature used for
economic gain
Natural rights: the idea that individuals have certain rights just because
they are human beings
New Deal: U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt’s programs to create
millions of jobs and restore the nation’s banks to a sound financial footing
Oligarchy: political system in which power is held by a small group of
people not elected by the citizens, usually members of an upper class
Opportunity cost: gains that are passed over in the choice of doing one
thing instead of another
Political parties: organizations that seek power and influence within the
government and are generally made up of members who share similar
opinions and ideas about many issues
Popular sovereignty: principle that government derives its power from
the consent of the governed and that the people have the right to a voice in
deciding how decisions are reached
Primary elections: candidates from the same political party run for the
same office against one another to determine which one will be the party’s
nominee in the general election
Productivity: output per unit of labor, or the rate at which goods or
services are produced
Profit: excess capital earned when a good is sold for more than it cost to
produce
Reconstruction: period in U.S. history from 1865 to 1877 in which efforts
were made to allow the former Confederate states to rejoin the Union and
to integrate African Americans
Reformation: religious movement to challenge the Catholic church that
began in 1517 with the founding of the Lutheran Church
Renaissance: 1350–1600 European cultural revival characterized by a
sharp rise in literacy and a resurgence of interest in Classical philosophy,
literature, and art
Scientific Revolution: 1543–1687 period that featured great progress in
human understanding of the laws of the universe
Segregation: post-slavery system of legal separation of the races in the
United States that began to be overturned in 1954 with Brown v. Board of
Education
Separation of powers/system of checks and balances: the U.S.
Constitution divides the federal government into three branches and each
branch checks the power of the other two
Silk Road: major overland trade route from China to Constantinople and
Alexandria
Socialism: political philosophy based on the idea that government control
of the economy can reduce or eradicate social injustice
Specialization: focusing on a limited area of economic activity
Stocks: stakes of ownership in a company
Supply: the amount of a good that is available
Surplus: an excess of production
Tariffs: taxes or duties paid on specified classes of imports or exports
Tax: a compulsory financial charge imposed by a governmental
organization
Topography: the physical features of the land
Trail of Tears: U.S. government’s forced removal of Cherokee from their
lands east of the Mississippi River to an area in present-day Oklahoma
during which one-fourth died
Truman Doctrine: an American foreign policy established in 1947 that
promised to help democratic nations threatened by Communism
Wages: the money workers earn from their labor
War on Terror: global counterterrorism military campaign started by the
United States after the September 11 attacks
Watergate: American political scandal in 1972 that led to Nixon’s
resignation
