
72. B Diversity of religion is a type of cultural diffusion.

73. A $10,380 is closest to $14,210, the gross national income per capita
    of the world.

74. D Least developed countries will also have low gross national income
    per capita. The lowest listed is Sub-Saharan Africa.

75. A Switching from a gas-powered car to a bicycle (0 emission) reduces
    carbon emissions more than any other change listed.
                              POSTTEST

                       Social Studies
40 questions | 70 minutes

This Posttest is intended to give you an idea of how ready you are to take
the real GED® Social Studies Test. Try to answer every question, in a quiet
area and with enough time so that you are free from distractions. The usual
time allotted for the test is 70 minutes. Remember that it is more
important to think about every question than it is to finish ahead of time.
Answers and explanations are at the end of the Posttest.

 1. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)
Questions 2–3 are based on the following timeline:




 2. What is the best explanation for the rapid sequence of declarations of
    war in 1914?
    A. imperialist ambitions of European states
    B. communist expansionism
    C. conflicting sets of alliances
    D. German aggression

 3. What led most directly to the U.S. decision to enter the war?
    A. the U.S. alliance with Britain
    B. outrage over the invasion of Belgium
    C. fear that the Bolshevik Revolution would spread
    D. resumption of German submarine attacks

Questions 4–5 are based on the following chart:




 4. Why do both the state and federal governments share such powers as
    the power to enact laws, enforce laws, and impose taxes?
    A. These are powers all governments must have.
    B. Each level must approve the actions of the other.
    C. Congress passed legislation granting these powers.
    D. All governments aim to enhance their own power.

 5. Laws passed by Congress regarding education policy are often
    controversial. Why is that so?
    A. The laws violate the states’ right to establish local governments.
    B. Education is supposed to be a state concern.
    C. The laws interfere with the states’ ability to regulate commerce.
    D. Congress imposes rules but does not provide any funds.
Question 6 is based on the following quotation:

“The Congress shall have the power . . . To make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.”

                                  —U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8

 6. Why is this clause, the “necessary and proper” clause, sometimes
    called the “elastic clause”?
    A. Congress has used it when declaring war.
    B. Congress has used it when impeaching three presidents.
    C. Congress has used it to become involved in a wide range of issues.
    D. When Congress stretches its power too much, it is stung by a public
       backlash.

Questions 7–8 are based on the following chart:

Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production, Selected States, 2009
7. Which state has the most pronounced comparative advantage in both
   crude oil and natural gas production?
  A. Alaska
  B. California
  C. Texas
  D. Wyoming

8. Which state has the second lowest natural gas production?
  A. Kansas
  B. Alaska
  C. California
  D. Wyoming
 9. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
                ®
   the real GED test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
   into the correct box.)




Questions 10–11 are based on the following passage:
The Constitution of the United States contains a preamble and seven
articles that describe the way the government is structured and how it
operates. The first three articles establish the three branches of
government and their powers: Legislative (Congress), Executive (office of
the President), and Judicial (Federal court system). A system of checks
and balances prevents any one of these separate powers from becoming
dominant. Articles four through seven describe the relationship of the
states to the Federal Government, establish the Constitution as the
supreme law of the land, and define the amendment and ratification
processes.
    Article I assigns the responsibility for making laws to the Legislative
Branch (Congress). Congress is divided into two parts, or “Houses,” the
House of Representatives and the Senate. The bicameral Congress was a
compromise between the large states, which wanted representation based
on population, and the small ones, which wanted the states to have equal
representation.
    Article II details the Executive Branch and the offices of the President
and Vice President. It lays down rules for electing the President (through
the Electoral College), eligibility (must be a natural-born citizen at least
35 years old), and term length. The 12th and 25th Amendments modified
some of these rules.
    Article III establishes the Judicial Branch with the U.S. Supreme Court
as the federal court system’s highest court. It specifies that Federal judges
be appointed for life unless they commit a serious crime. This article is
shorter than Articles I and II. The Federal Convention left much of the
work of planning the court system to the First Congress. The 1789
Judiciary Act created the three-tiered court system in place today.
   Article IV outlines states’ powers in relationship to each other. States
have the authority to create and enforce their own laws but must respect
and help enforce the laws of other states. Congress may pass Federal laws
regarding how states honor other states’ laws and records.
    Article V explains the amendment process, which is different and more
difficult than the process for making laws. When two-thirds of the Senate
and two-thirds of the House of Representatives vote to change the
Constitution, an amendment goes to the state legislatures for a vote.
Alternatively, two-thirds of the state legislatures can submit an application
to Congress, and then Congress calls a national convention at which states
propose amendments. Three-fourths of the state legislatures or state
conventions must vote in favor of an amendment to ratify it.
    Article VI states that Federal law is supreme, or higher than, state and
local laws. This means that if a state law conflicts with a Federal law,
Federal law takes precedence.
    Article VII describes the ratification process for the Constitution. It
called for special state ratifying conventions. Nine states were required to
enact the Constitution. Rhode Island became the 13th state to ratify the
Constitution in 1790.
                                       Source: Excerpted from archives.gov
 [Source: https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/constitution/what-does-
                                                                  it-say]

10. Which section of the Constitution contains the general procedures by
    which a bill becomes a law?
    A. Article I
    B. Article II
    C. Article III
    D. Article V

11. Which article of the Constitution would contain the following passage?
“Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts,
Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress
may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.”
    A. Article IV
    B. Article V
    C. Article VI
    D. Article VII

Questions 12–13 are based on the following chart:
The following sentence contains a blank marked                       .
Beneath it is a set of choices. Indicate the choice that is correct and
belongs in the blank. (Note: On the real GED® test, the choices will
appear as a “drop-down” menu. When you click on a choice, it will appear
in the blank.)

12. Based on the information in the chart, it can be inferred that the impact
    of banks’ lending money is called the multiplier effect because it
    multiplies________________________.
13. The percentage of deposits that banks must hold in reserve is set by the
    Federal Reserve. What would be the effect if the Fed increased that
    percentage?
    A. Banks’ deposits would increase.
    B. Banks’ profits would also increase.
    C. Banks would have less money to lend.
    D. Banks would compete more aggressively for deposits.

Questions 14–15 are based on the following map:




    Source: U.S. Geological Survey.

14. Based on the map, which state is most likely to experience an
    earthquake? Write your answer in the blank.
    __________________________________

15. Which area or areas in the eastern half of the nation have the most
    unstable fault patterns, making them most likely to experience
   earthquakes?
    A. Gulf Coast and Great Lakes regions
    B. central Mississippi River Valley and Appalachian Mountains
    C. New England coast and Ohio River Valley
    D. southeast Atlantic coast and Great Plains

Questions 16–18 are based on the following chart:

Ten Largest U.S. Cities, 1900-2010




16. What regions dominate the city listings in 1900 and 1930?
    A. Atlantic and Pacific Coasts
    B. Northeast and Midwest
    C. South and West
    D. Southwest and Northeast

17. In which two states are the majority of major cities in 2010?
    A. California and Texas
    B. California and Arizona
    C. New York and California
    D. Texas and New York

18. What general trend can be seen in the changes in the lists of the
    country’s major cities over the period of time shown?
    A. growth of population across all regions
    B. the growing dominance of the Northeast
    C. population shift to the South and West
    D. population growth on the Gulf Coast and in Texas

Questions 19–21 are based on the following chart:

Major Supreme Court Decisions under Chief Justice John Marshall




19. In which decision did the Marshall Court establish the power of
    judicial review?
    A. Gibbons v. Ogden
    B. Marbury v. Madison
    C. McCullough v. Maryland
    D. Worcester v. Georgia

20. Read the following passage from one of the Marshall Court’s
    decisions.
“The framers of our Constitution foresaw this state of things and provided
for it by declaring the supremacy not only of itself but of the laws made in
pursuance of it. The nullity of any act inconsistent with the Constitution is
produced by the declaration that the Constitution is supreme law. The
appropriate application of that part of the clause which confers the same
supremacy on laws and treaties is to such acts of the state legislatures as
do not transcend their powers, but though enacted in the execution of
acknowledged state powers, interfere with, or are contrary to, the laws of
Congress, made in pursuance of the Constitution or some treaty made
under the authority of the United States. In every such case, the act of
Congress or the treaty is supreme; and the law of the state, though enacted
in the exercise of powers not controverted, must yield to it. . . .”

The Court could use this argument to support its decision in which case?
    A. Barron v. Baltimore
    B. Dartmouth College v. Woodward
    C. Gibbons v. Ogden
    D. Marbury v. Madison

21. In which decision did the Court give a narrow interpretation of the
    applicability of the Constitution?
    A. Barron v. Baltimore
    B. Cohens v. Virginia
    C. Fletcher v. Peck
    D. Worcester v. Georgia

Questions 22–24 are based on the following graphs. (Note: On the real
GED® test, you will click on the box you want to indicate.)
22. Indicate the graph that shows a simple demand curve.
    __________________________________

23. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on supply of increased
    government regulation.
    __________________________________

24. Indicate the graph that shows the effect on demand in a local market of
    increased employment as a result of the location of a new factory in
    that market.
    __________________________________

25. Indicate the box where each of the following items belongs. (Note: On
    the real GED® test, you will click on the items and “drag” each one
    into the correct box.)




26. Which pair correctly lists the president and a major achievement?
    A. Thomas Jefferson and the Louisiana Purchase
    B. William McKinley and Reconstruction
    C. Franklin D. Roosevelt and the building of the Panama Canal
    D. Bill Clinton and the end of the Cold War

27. Scientists who warn of a connection between climate change and
    human actions generally point to what practice as the central cause of
    the problem?
    A. burning of fossil fuels
    B. deforestation
    C. pollution
    D. waste disposal

28. Which of the following are most cited as major problems resulting
    from climate change?
    A. deforestation and desertification
    B. increased risk of infectious disease and aging population
    C. more extreme weather and rising sea levels
    D. urban overcrowding and crime

29. Which totalitarian leader launched World War II and caused the death
    of millions of civilians, including six million Jews, in the Holocaust?
    A. Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany
    B. Benito Mussolini of Fascist Italy
    C. Napoleon Bonaparte of France
    D. Joseph Stalin of the Soviet Union

30. Widespread suffering resulting from what event helped bring about
    Adolf Hitler’s rise to power?
    A. French Revolution
    B. Great Depression
    C. Industrial Revolution
    D. Russian Revolution

Questions 31–32 are based on the following chart:
31. What is the relationship of income to educational attainment for men
    and women?
    A. Income rises with education for men but not for women.
    B. Income rises with education at the same rate for men and women.
    C. Income rises with education for men and women.
    D. Income rises with education for women but not for men.

32. What economic principle is demonstrated by this relationship?
    A. the benefit of investing in human capital
    B. the law of supply and demand
    C. the law of diminishing returns
    D. the reason governments address externalities

Questions 33–35 are based on the following chart:

Religious Affiliation in Southeast Asia
33. Which country shows the greatest religious diversity?
    A. Burma
    B. Cambodia
    C. Philippines
    D. Singapore

34. Religious affiliation in which country reflects the effects of cultural
    diffusion as a result of trade with Southwest Asia?
    A. Burma
    B. Indonesia
    C. Singapore
    D. Vietnam

35. Religious affiliation in which country strongly reflects the effects of
    cultural diffusion as a result of European colonialism?
    A. Burma
    B. Indonesia
    C. Philippines
    D. Singapore

Questions 36–38 are based on the following timeline:
36. Which cases decided by the Warren Court involved First Amendment
    rights?
    A. Baker v. Carr and Reynolds v. Sims
    B. Engel v. Vitale and Tinker v. Des Moines
    C. Griswold v. Connecticut and Loving v. Virginia
    D. Miranda v. Arizona and Escobedo v. Illinois

37. What area of law was a common subject of the decisions in Mapp v.
    Ohio, Gideon v. Wainwright, Escobedo v. Illinois, and Miranda v.
    Arizona?
    A. due process in criminal cases
    B. equal rights
    C. equal representation
    D. federal versus state power
38. Read the following quotation from one of the decisions of the Warren
    Court:
“The right to be heard would be, in many cases, of little avail if it did not
comprehend the right to be heard by counsel. Even the intelligent and
educated layman has small and sometimes no skill in the science of law. If
charged with crime, he is incapable, generally, of determining for himself
whether the indictment is good or bad. He is unfamiliar with the rules of
evidence. Left without the aid of counsel, he may be put on trial without a
proper charge, and convicted upon incompetent evidence, or evidence
irrelevant to the issue or otherwise inadmissible. He lacks both the skill
and knowledge adequately to prepare his defense, even though he have a
perfect one. He requires the guiding hand of counsel at every step in the
proceedings against him. Without it, though he be not guilty, he faces the
danger of conviction because he does not know how to establish his
innocence.”
     In which case was the Court most likely to use these words to explain
        its decision?
     A. Escobedo v. Illinois
     B. Gideon v. Wainwright
     C. Mapp v. Ohio
     D. Miranda v. Arizona

39. Which women were pioneers in the women’s suffrage movement?
    A. Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem
    B. Geraldine Ferraro, Sarah Palin, and Hillary Clinton
    C. Eleanor Roosevelt and Frances Perkins
    D. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Carrie Chapman
       Catt

Question 40 is based on the following information:
  Excerpt from President Johnson’s Speech on the
               Vietnam War (1965)
“North Viet-Nam has attacked the independent nation of South Viet-Nam.
Its object is total conquest . . .

“Over this war—and all Asia—is another reality: the deepening shadow of
Communist China. The rulers in Hanoi are urged on by Peking. This is a
regime which has destroyed freedom in Tibet, which has attacked India,
and has been condemned by the United Nations for aggression in Korea. It
is a nation which is helping the forces of violence in almost every
continent. The contest in Viet-Nam is part of a wider pattern of aggressive
purposes.”

40. Which of the following best states President Johnson’s reason for
    seeking to expand U.S. efforts in Vietnam?
    A. He wants to make Vietnam a U.S. protectorate.
    B. He wants to secure natural resources in Vietnam.
    C. He wants to honor U.S. treaty obligations to India.
    D. He wants to keep world order and prevent the spread of
       communism.




           THIS IS THE END OF THE SOCIAL STUDIES POSTTEST.


Answers and Explanations
1. House: two-year term, Speaker presides, representation based on
    population, votes to impeach; Senate: tries impeachments, equal
    representation per state, six-year term, vice president presides.

2. C There were numerous conflicting alliances and treaties that required
    allies to defend each other.

3. D In April, the United States declared war. Just before that, in February,
    German submarines resumed attacks.

4. A Any government must be able to enact and enforce laws and levy
    taxes.

5. B “Run public schools” is listed under Reserved (State) Powers.

6. C It is called the “elastic clause” because it allows Congress to stretch
    its powers like elastic.

7. C Texas is highest in both categories.

8. A Kansas has the second lowest (the lowest is California) with 354
    billion cubic feet.
9. Department of Health and Human Services: Food and Drug
    Administration, National Institutes of Health, Administration for
    Children and Families; Department of Labor: Wage and Hour Division,
    Occupational Safety & Health Administration; Department of the
    Interior: Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, U.S.
    Fish and Wildlife Service

10. A Article I concerns the legislative branch, which makes laws.

11. A Article IV covers recognition of states’ laws.

12. the amount The loans “multiply” the
    of money amount of money in
    in circulation circulation.

13. C If the percentage reserved were higher, the percent loaned would be
    lower.

14. California California had the most major earthquakes in this period,
    so is most likely to have another.

15. B The biggest concentration of major earthquakes in the eastern half of
    the country is near St. Louis, Missouri, in the central Mississippi River
    Valley. The Appalachian Mountains are another area of high
    concentration.

16. B New York and Philadelphia in the Northeast and Chicago in the
    Midwest were the largest three cities in 1900 and 1930.

17. A Texas and California each have three of the top 10.

18. C Cities in the Northeast and Midwest have lost rank to cities in the
    Southwest and West.

19. B Marbury v. Madison established the power of courts to determine
    whether a federal law was constitutional.
20. C Gibbons v. Ogden established the supremacy of Congress over the
    states in regulating commerce.

21. A Barron v. Baltimore limited the applicability of the Bill of Rights.

22. Graph 2 shows a simple demand curve.

